Former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero has won the first round of his battle with the anti-corruption agency over his multi-billion shilling empire. Lady Justice Hedwig Ong’udi yesterday stopped the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) from investigating or searching Dr Kidero’s properties. ALSO READ:

Report on House bribery claims not ready Kidero has been fighting to save his businesses and stop what he termed constant harassment by EACC. He also won back several of his properties that had been seized when the judge ordered the commission to surrender them to him within 72 hours. “An order is hereby issued suspending any further action in respect to a search warrant issued to EACC allowing them to search Dr Kidero’s properties. The commission, its agents or any other person acting on their behalf are stopped forthwith from interfering with the applicant,” ruled the judge. Justice Ong’udi ordered EACC to sit with Kidero and make an inventory of the assets that had been seized and have it filed in court to confirm that everything had been handed back to him. The judge said her orders would remain in force until the determination of Kidero’s case challenging the EACC’s powers to investigate him over allegations of amassing massive wealth at the time he was serving in public office. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content She also excluded the Director of Public Prosecutions from the dispute and expunged the DPP’s records from the proceedings. She stated that the dispute was solely between Kidero and EACC. “The DPP has not played any role in the dispute so far and has not been cited by any of the parties. I find that they do not serve any purpose as a party in these proceedings and therefore expunge them from the proceedings,” ruled the judge. According to Justice Ong’udi, Kidero had raised several questions about the legality of EACC’s search of his premises which could only be determined while his assets were intact. Kidero sued EACC after its officers raided his home and several premises in September, claiming they were looking for evidence of wealth he illegally acquired. ALSO READ:

Mwilu's foe is now her passionate defender EACC claimed Kidero was worth Sh9 billion and listed the properties they are investigating over claims they were irregularly acquired. Kidero accused the commission of malice, stating that it lied about his wealth and included some properties that he did not own in a bid to portray him as a person who corruptly benefited from public funds. Although he admitted to being a billionaire, going by the properties he owned, Kidero stated that the amounts were exaggerated and did not reflect the current market value or the actual price he bought them. He said he bought some of the properties long before he was elected governor. Out of the 75 properties EACC listed, Kidero said he owned only 60 and that they cost him Sh647 million, but EACC estimated them to be worth Sh5.5 billion. The case will be mentioned on December 4.