Nairobi County MCAs have threatened to pull out of the County Assembly’s Forum (CAF) claiming that the leadership of the forum is protecting corrupt and impeached speakers. The ward legislators also said they would mobilise MCAs from other counties such as Homa Bay, Kakamega and Kisumu to pull out of the forum. ALSO READ:

Elachi’s woes persist as MCAs elect Mwaura as acting speaker Led by Nairobi county majority leader Abdi Guyo, the ward reps lamented that CAF chairman Johnson Osoi was using the forum to protect speakers who stood impeached across the various assemblies. Osoi also doubles up as the Kajiado county Assembly Speaker. “The leadership of CAF has failed to address the issues touching on all the 47county assemblies and it seems to be protecting the speakers who stand impeached. The chairman has turned the forum into a speaker’s forum but I want to assure him that we will pull out if he doesn’t address the members concerns,” stated Guyo. Sought for comment, Osoi however, said that he never defended any speaker who has been impeached on corrupt grounds. He however insisted that the law needed to be followed when impeaching any speaker. “I am not aware of how CAF has protected corrupt speakers. Thing is that Nairobi might not have been procedural in removing Elachi as speaker and that might be why they think am defending the former speaker which is not true,” he said. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Adding, “Everyone is entitled to fair hearing in line with the constitution. We have been in existence since 2013 and we have had speakers impeached previously and we are not on record defending anyone.” Numerous speakers have borne the brunt of disgruntled MCAs who have accused their leaders of various allegations. Nairobi Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi was impeached two months ago, over allegations that included conflict of interest, undermining the authority of the county assembly service board, abuse of office, gross misconduct as well as failure to show leadership. ALSO READ:

MCAs: No more drama, we have moved on Homa Bay Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo and Kakamega speaker Morris Buluma were also ousted following allegations of biasness and failure to approve MCAs’ mortgage and car loans. They were also accused of using county funds for personal gain respectively.