A family from Mbui Nzau village, Kibwezi West constituency, Makueni County is mourning the death of their child, a Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) candidate at Maiani Secondary School in Mukaa, Kilome constituency. Benard Mutua, 18 was reportedly kicked on the abdomen by his fellow student while fighting on Saturday before getting stomach complications that led to his loss of life Monday evening. ALSO READ:

KCSE candidate hospitalised after fight with lover The student was put on painkillers by the school till his condition worsened before he was rushed to Kilome Nursing Home, treated and referred to Makindu Sub-County Hospital. Mutua’s mother, Francisca Munyiva said that she was shocked by the manner in which her son died. “It’s very painful, the school called me on Monday informing me to drive to the school but I was away in Nairobi and at that moment I contacted my sister who travelled to the facility, but on arrival my son passed on,” said Francisca. According to the mother, her sister talked with the late Mutua before taking his last breath where he revealed to her of what had happened. “My son narrated in agony while being taken to theatre, he said that he was beaten up by his fellow student while in school on Saturday,” she said. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Makindu Sub-County medical superintendent Kasanga David said the patient was taken ill on Monday around 2.50 pm while unstable with distended abdomen and vomiting. “We received the student at around 2:50pm from Kilome Nursing home with reported three episodes of vomiting,” he said. Doctors moved with speed and provided a provisional diagnosis of peritonitis and immediately wheeled him to the theatre for emergency laparotomy at exactly 3pm, records indicated. ALSO READ:

Local setbacks pull back miraa trade “He showed unstable vital signs and he couldn’t be administered with any drugs before surgical operations and at this juncture the team decided to stabilize his state once again,” Kasanga added. Unfortunately, the boy’s condition worsened and he died at around 3:45pm in the theatre plate before operation was done. Maiana Secondary School Principal Mr. Silvester Wambua said he had handed over the matter to the police for investigations and that he didn’t want to issue any statement. Mukaa OCPD Charles Muthui said the matter was under investigation. Makueni County commissioner Mohammed Maalim said authorities will dig deeper into the matter. “I have instructed the area Deputy County Commission and the police to do thorough investigations on what caused the student’s death, if it’s natural death we say sorry but if it’s something beyond that we will make sure justice is done for the family,” Maalim assured.