The Orange Democratic Movement has acquired a Sh180 million property in Lavington, Nairobi, as its new headquarters. The Standard has established that the Opposition chief Raila Odinga-led party has made a down payment of more than Sh20 million and is expected to pay at least 60 per cent of the total cost before moving in by December 31. ALSO READ:

Raila Odinga - Peter Kenneth 2022 ticket? The purchase is part of the party’s re-branding strategy ahead of the 2022 General Election, with top party officials hinting at major plans to revamp the party that was at one time the largest and most formidable political entity in the country. Yesterday, senior officials said plans were underway to start renovating the new headquarters this week in readiness for the relocation, which will be officially announced to supporters by the party leader. “Everything is going on as planned, and from this week we will start painting the building with our orange colour and have any other thing fixed. We are also shopping for new items such as furniture and cabinets for the new offices,” said the official. The party on Friday told its supporters through a tweet to expect a revamped political outfit as “something good and new coming to you soon". The relocation has been prompted by the refusal of former Raila aide Caroli Omondi to renew the lease of Orange House, located on Menelik Road in Nairobi’s Kilimani area. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Omondi worked for Raila in the Prime Minister’s Office during the Grand Coalition government before an apparent fallout. His relationship with the party deteriorated after he lost to ODM Chairman John Mbadi (Suba South) in a disputed party primary in the run-up to the 2017 election. He claimed that Mbadi used his party position to abuse the electoral process. ODM Executive Director Oduor Ong’wen in June denied claims that the party was kicked out due to the bad blood between Omondi and the party. ALSO READ:

Raila Odinga: I am still in Opposition