 There’s something magical about a crowd of people all dressed in white. Hustle had first-hand experience of this when we were invited to Diner En Blanc, an all-white picnic that takes place in 90 cities around the world. Diner En Blanc, which translates to ‘dinner in white’, is an exclusive international franchise. The aim of the event is to have fun with loved ones and meet new people adventurous enough to scout for all things white, from outfits and crockery to picnic baskets, decor and accessories. In Nairobi, the event takes place in October and is organised by Leanne Peris and her husband, Samson Mbugua, the co-founders of Aster Eden Planners. Though Diner En Blanc is 30 years old, it’s been running in Kenya only since 2015. Leanne talks to Hustle about the genesis of her partnership with the worldwide franchise, and how she has consistently learned from and overcome the challenges of executing an international brand in Kenya.  Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. What drew you to Diner En Blanc? My friend at the time, Sam, who later became my husband, saw some pictures and videos of the event online. He thought this was the kind of thing that would excite me, so he told me about it. I was 24 and had just resigned from a job as a tea girl, which paid me Sh12,000 a month. The thought of bringing something as glamorous as Diner En Blanc was extremely enticing.  So you had no experience as an event planner? None. I had, however, started a management consultancy company; I knew how to put things together and how to write a dynamic proposal. When I sent a query email to Diner En Blanc, they opened up conversation, detailing the requirements and regulations they needed before they could grant us the franchise.  What were some of the requirements? We needed an event company with a track record, and to show that we had the ability to fund and market the event and obtain the relevant licences from the authorities. I was shocked when they picked my company, especially when I found out that 13 others had applied for the franchise.  How long did it take between winning the contract and holding the first event? Two years. One of the main challenges we faced was that the event company we’d partnered with didn’t think we could pull off such a concept in Kenya. For one, they thought our proposed ticket price was too high for the market.  How much did you want to charge? We were proposing Sh9,000 per couple. I admit it was a hard sell, particularly in a country where most events cost Sh1,000 at the time. Eventually, we parted ways with that events firm.  You mentioned earlier that one of the requirements was to self-fund the event. How did you do this? I think this was serendipity at work. A friend of mine had got married about two years before I became interested in Diner En Blanc. I couldn’t make it her wedding, so I offered to provide drinking water as a gift even though I could barely afford it on my Sh12,000 salary. It so happens that the person I dealt with to process the order for the water was the owner of the company. In 2014, he was looking for a manager for his business and he remembered I came from a management background and was impressed by how I’d handled myself in our original encounter. He called me to his office to offer me a job, but I didn’t have enough money for transport there – I was living in Kiambu and the interview was in Thika. Just as I was giving up, I got a message from M-Shwari, saying I was eligible for a loan of Sh1,000. This is exactly what I needed, so I borrowed it. I declined the full-time job I was offered, but proposed my services as a management consultant, which included hiring the company’s staff. I got a one-year, seven-figure contract. That’s the money I used for the Diner En Blanc event.  When did the first event eventually take place? October 2015. It had been hard journey riddled with learning lessons and excruciating stress. We went at a loss of about Sh800,000 – the total event had cost us approximately Sh3.7 million. We sold 150 tickets at Sh9,000 per couple, so we were expecting 300 people, but we got 600 instead because we didn’t have stringent measures at the gate and many people gained access without paying. Because we were extremely green in event organising, our event partner inflated costs and overcharged us for everything. For instance, we ended up paying Sh1,500 for tables that should have cost around Sh500. We paid Sh450,000 for photography and videography and Sh300,000 for PR. Today, we pay Sh350,000 for the visuals and do our PR in house.  Was it a success, despite the challenges? Absolutely. It’s still one of my most memorable events. What made it special was the energy of the attendees, to see that everyone had actually worn white and brought white accessories as instructed, and to have strangers mingling and dancing with each other into the early morning: that was something else.  How did you get around the notion that Sh9,000 for a ticket is too high? Interestingly enough, Nairobi is actually one of the cheapest Diners En Blanc around the world. This event is a culture; people who show up for it appreciate that fact that it’s designed with prestige and awe in mind. It’s about having such unique memories that the cost paid is worth it.  This year, your event got some backlash from unhappy attendees. What happened? We had some major setbacks. We had vendors that let us down, particularly the food vendors. The food was stale and cold and not sufficient for everyone who’d paid in advance for the service. People had also paid for cutlery and crockery, yet the supplier didn’t bring any plates. In addition, we had complaints about attendees who’d been allowed into the venue without the correct attire. The all-white wasn’t completely white.  Have you done anything to appease those who were disappointed? Yes. Out of the 572 who attended the event, 220 bought dinner from us and 71 bought dinner sets. They’ll all get refunds. Beyond this, I’ll personally reach out to all these people and give my apologies that our event did not meet their expectations this time round, and get feedback on how they’d like us to improve going forward.  What are some of your resolutions after the mistakes of 2018? We’ve decided to go back to the traditional concept of Diner En Blanc, which is for everyone to bring their own food and utensils. When it comes to following the dress code, we’ll employ impartial bouncers to veto anyone who falls outside of the stipulated rules before they enter the buses that take attendees to the secret event location.  Why the secret location? It’s all a part of the mystery. This year we partnered with Waterfront Mall in Karen with many thanks to IMG’s Peter Gacheru. I can safely say it was the best location we’ve ever held the event at. Against the backdrop of the mini-lake in front of the mall, and the artistically designed structures, everything looked amazing.  Why should anyone come to a Diner En Blanc? It’s different. You can always go clubbing or walk into a restaurant for dinner, but how many times will you score the town looking for the perfect white outfit and perfect white picnic basket, especially if you’re doing it with a group of friends? A group effort is always fun. Diner En Blanc is glamorous, but above that, it’s about the human spirit – sharing and allowing ourselves to just have a good time.