Johnstone Munene , Michael Ochieng , Kelvin Ndosi in the dock at a Milimani court where they were charged with violently robbing Philemon Ochieng 15,000 shillings and car ignitiojn keys . They were released on a 300,000 shillings cash bail or a bond of 500,000 shillings . [Photo: George Njunge / Standard] Policemen deny robbery with violence charges Three police officers have been charged with robbery with violence. Kelvin Ndosi, Michael Ochieng' and Johnstone Munene are said to have robbed Philemon Ochieng' of Sh15,000 and car keys on October 13. They committed the offence jointly with another person not before court, Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi heard yesterday. The three were also accused of using force against Ochieng' during the incidence at Shell petrol station on the Eastern bypass within Kiambu County. The suspects pleaded not guilty to the charges. The prosecution did not object to their request to be released on bond and bail. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Their lawyer asked court for lenient bond and bail terms. “Your honour, my clients are not a flight risk, as they have known abode and are in gainful employment as policemen. Therefore, they cannot abscond court proceedings,” said David Ayuo. The lawyer said the accused persons were family men with children that needed their care. Officers at the Mama Lucy Administration Police camp are said to have received information that someone had been kidnapped by people said to be police officers. The officers are said to have followed the victim's car. One of the suspects allegedly called Ochieng's wife and demanded Sh300,000 ransom. The court heard that the men, who had introduced themselves as officers, confiscated Ochieng's mobile phone, handcuffed him and bundled him in the back seat of his car. Police traced the accused to Kamakis in Ruiru, Kiambu, and arrested them. Two suspects escaped. One of the accused persons is said to have turned violent when detectives demanded to know why they were holding Ochieng'. He claimed Ochieng' had a case but failed to disclose which police station he belonged to. The three were arrested and booked at Ruiru police station before being transferred to Flying Squad headquarters. They were each released on Sh300,000 cash bail or Sh500,000 bond. The case will be heard on December 3.