Political commentator Adams Oloo, opposition leader Raila Odinga and Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji. [File, Standard] The Building Bridges task force will start county visits next week. ALSO READ:

Building Bridges taskforce meets stakeholders, receives submissions The 14-member team gazetted on May 31 had its first public stakeholder meeting at the KICC, Nairobi. Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi, the task force’s joint secretaries, in July asked the public to submit views on how to tackle national problems. The team was set up following the March 9 unity deal between opposition chief Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta. The team chaired by Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji is required to seek public views on legislation review. The required input will guide on how to prevent corruption in economic, governance and social departments. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Haji and his team are expected to issue recommendations and reform proposals by May next year. The aim of the submission is to provide solutions on how Kenyans can build unity. The submissions can also be emailed to bbi@citizensupport.go.ke and should include phone and email details. Targeted groups include citizens, clerics, community elders, the private sector and national and county leaders. ALSO READ:

What Uhuru Kenyatta said in Kikuyu (Video) The Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims on Friday urged the team to be careful on recommendations on law changes. Part of the task force’s duty is to draw a clear line between minority and marginalized groups. For the second time, Turkana County has been identified as the most marginalised region in various policies crafted by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. In the first policy in 2013, the county received Sh1.5 billion and looks forward to get Sh1.2 billion of the Equalisation Fund after the commission launched the second policy in June. The previous policy identified Turkana, Mandera, Wajir, Samburu, West Pokot, Tana River, Narok, Kwale, Garissa, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Isiolo and Lamu, which shared Sh11.8 billion. In the second policy, the number of counties increased to 34. They are set to share Sh12.4 billion after the commission identified them as marginalised in different priorities, including roads, health, education, water, electricity and fund administration.

Following devolution, devolved units are expected to hire at least 30 per cent of people from the groups listed as ‘minority’. Task force members are Rose Moseu, Agnes Kavindu, Maison Leshomo, Archbishop Zecheus Okot, Florence Omose, Adams Oloo, Major John Seii, Morompi ole Ronkai, James Matundura, Senator Amos Wako, Saeed Mwanguni, Bishop Lawi Imathiu and Bishop Peter Njenga. ALSO READ:

Uhuru now goes after property owners in tax war