On October 31, many Catholic residents commemorated the death of Sister Irene Nyaatha. The celebrations included a procession that ended in a special Mass. ALSO READ:

Free potato seed plan backfires However, most residents did not seem to realise that freedom fighter Dedan Kimathi was born on that day. He would be 98 today. Many residents of Karunaini village in Tetu constituency, Kimathi’s home area, went about their business as usual and did not even mention the freedom fighter in their conversations as they did Sister Nyaatha. Tucked deep Only a handful of residents were seen visiting Kimathi’s Kahagaini Shrine tucked deep in Karunaini village. One of the reasons residents gave for not visiting the shrine was the bad road. The Ihururu-Karunaini-Miagayuini road that leads to the site is dilapidated. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. Residents use the road to deliver tea and milk to the market. They said they had to walk many kilometres to reach the main road as no vehicle plies it. Residents stood at their gates with containers full of milk. However, the look on their faces told a story of despair. The site where Kimathi was shot and captured 61 years ago was gazetted in 2001. ALSO READ:

Two suspects linked to chief's murder surrender to police A visit to the shrine paints a picture of neglect. The road is narrow and rough. It disappears into tea bushes near the Aberdare Forest and is impassable during the rainy season. Residents pointed The Standard team to the place where they said Kimathi bled. A wooden gate held in place with rusty wires marks the entrance to the shrine, which is overgrown with bushes. A concrete slab, painted in the colours of the Kenyan flag, is the only indication the site has historical significance. And you have to push aside the weeds to see the slab. Simon Kagenyow, who lives a few metres from the shrine, said the road was a challenge for residents. He said both the national and county governments had promised to rehabilitate the road but no action had been taken. “I have lived here all my life. We have to walk for close to four kilometres to get public transport on the main road because the vehicles don’t come here. The situation is worse when it rains.” Humphrey Maina said it was difficult to transport bags of tea to buying centres at Kahigaini and Karunaini because of the poor state of the road. ALSO READ:

Hospitals in poor shape, says senator “Every year, we have Government officials coming to visit the shrine. They promise to tarmac the road and build a proper monument, but that is where the story ends,” said Mr Maina. During last year’s ceremony to commemorate Kimathi’s capture, students of Dedan Kimathi Memorial High School carried his widow, Mukami Kimathi, in a wheelchair across a tea farm to the site. Tetu MP James Gichuhi said tarmacking the road that connects Ihururu shopping centre to Karunini and Kahigaini was a priority for his office. “I have been spearheading efforts to put tarmac on the 15 kilometres since I came to office. We are at the design stage. Once this is complete, we will push for allocation of funds,” said Mr Gichuhi. He added that the road was key to opening up the area. “Opening up the road will lead to economic growth of this region as it will attract tourists who may want to visit the shrine. Important site “The Dedan Kimathi shrine is important and we need to develop it further in honour of our freedom heroes, and tarmacking of the road is a key step in these efforts.” The local government had announced plans to set up a heroes’ monument in honour of Dedan Kimathi. The county government, in its 2019 Annual Development Plan (ADP), said it would set aside Sh25 million for the construction of the Dedan Kimathi monument, an ablution block and an administrative office. ALSO READ:

Suspect allowed to travel to US for 7-day church meeting But residents are sceptical. “I will believe it when I see it. For now, it is just another proposal. Until it is turned into action, it does not meant much to us. We want action not promises,” said Kagenyu.