The recent political manoeuvres in the Rift Valley over 2022 succession has caused unease inside Deputy President William Ruto camp. The unanticipated “handshake” between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, and growing influence of Baringo Senator Gideon Moi may have forced the DP to extend an Olive branch to his political adversaries, say analysts. ALSO READ:

DP returns to Western for fundsdrive amid heightened politics Last week, a high powered delegation led by DP Ruto’s allies visit the former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto at his Tumoi home in Bomet. The former county chief took sabbatical from politics despite efforts by leaders from the region to have him join the Jubilee administration. If Isaac agrees to the manouvres, he will be dimming the rising star of Energy CS Charles Keter, according to political analysts. According to leaders who attended the meeting, the delegation comes ahead of likely appointment of Isaac to government following several months of talks. Isaac and his Chama Cha Mashinani Party (CCM) was seen as a political disrupter in South Rift before his influence was clipped by DP Ruto in last year’s General Election. In the last five years, the two political bossom buddies-turned-foes have not seen eye to eye on regional politics, with Isaac forming his own outfit to rival the Jubilee Party. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. High-powered delegation But last week, Governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), John Lonyagapuo (West Pokot), Paul Chepkwony (Kericho) and Samuel Tunai (Narok) led a delegation to Isaac’s home in a bid to win Isaac back to the fold. Also in the delegation was the DP’s aide, Farouk Kibet, an indication that it was sent from high-up the Jubilee Party structure. Mandago, who once supported the “Pesa Mashinani” referendum fronted by Isaac in 2015 before ditching the former governor, says they are working to cement Ruto’s ascension to the country’s top seat come 2022 and for a united Rift Valley. ALSO READ:

Raila joins fray a day after Uhuru shocker “I have personally talked to both the President and his deputy about bringing Isaac on board and our presence here today is to appeal to him to be part us,” Mandago told assembled CCM delegates. He described Isaac as a national leader whose standing is beyond local politics “and we want him to be part of Government so that we can utilise his experience and understanding of issues”. “Even the current crop of governors agree that Isaac was right to push for the Pesa Mashinani referendum drive and we want to tap into his ability,” Mandago added. Political analysts see the move as the Deputy President’s response to growing uncertainty surrounding the 2022 succession. University of Nairobi lecturer Herman Manyora told Sunday Standard Ruto wants to consolidate support in Rift Valley amid an onslaught from Gideon Moi and the Uhuru-Raila handshake. Manyora says the handshake between has muddied the waters for Ruto, “who seems to be playing catch up with the changing political playing field”. “Ruto is under siege from two fronts, the rising political star of Gideon and the Uhuru-Raila handshake. His move to court Isaac is aimed at consolidating support in his Rift Valley backyard and more so keep Gideon in check,” Manyora says. ALSO READ:

Anecdotes as leaders pay tribute to Kiano With Jubilee in its second term, Isaac, his CCM party and Kanu have emerged as political alternatives for the Rift Valley region and could play a key role in the 2022 succession. In the run-up to 2017 elections, political differences between the two Rutos saw the DP lead spirited campaigns to have Joyce Laboso replace Isaac as Bomet governor. Isaac fell out with the DP and the Jubilee Party after the 2013 elections, accusing them of reneging on a pledge to support devolution by allocating more resources to counties. Isaac was convinced the Deputy President did not mean well for the South Rift region and formed CCM. But when he was beaten to the Bomet seat by Laboso and Nasa, where he was a co-principal, lost to Jubilee, he sent mixed signals. Political mettle “I felt lonely. I found myself alone and I have now decided to come back. Today I have returned where I belong,” Ruto told the elated crowd in Kapkatet, Kericho County after the 2017 elections. According to Kapsoit Ward Representative Paul Chirchir, Thursday’s meeting in Tumoi was the first in a bid to define the 2022 succession. Rift Valley leaders agree the CCM leader is a political force who can tip the scales in the 2022 politics, he added. “You cannot write him off. He is a shrewd politician who can break or make someone and that is why it is risky for him to be left to eat into Ruto’s support in the Rift Valley”. ALSO READ:

What Uhuru Kenyatta said in Kikuyu (Video) University of Kabianga lecturer and political analyst Philip Chebunet believes the uncertainty in Jubilee forced the DP to look for options to consolidate his support base. Dr Chebunet said Isaac’s support will save Ruto gruelling campaigns to consolidate Rift Valley. “Now that the President has not come out to clearly support his bid, Ruto’s option is to consolidate his support base. With Isaac, his campaign strategy is well oiled,” he said.