Mariners in the Lamu archipelago are set to benefit from a three day workshop on Oil Spill Response organised by the maritime regulatory agency, Kenya Maritime Authority (KMA). The workshop started yesterday and concludes tomorrow with experts from Norway's Coastal Administration Unit helping to conduct mock drills exercise. ALSO READ:

US okays Iran oil importation by eight traders KMA Director General Major (Rtd) George Nyamoko Okongo' while officiating at the opening of the work being held at the Majlis Hotel, Lamu yesterday stressed the importance of tackling oil spills whenever they occur near water bodies . ''We have gathered here because we recognize the serious threat posed to the marine environment by oil pollution incidents involving ships, sea ports and oil handling facilities,'' he said Major Okongo' noted that heightened petroleum activities both offshore and onshore in search for oil and gas with discoveries already made onshore have led to risks for pollution incidents on our waters. Lamu County has also seen a rise in development activities both in shipping and petroleum and gas prospecting activities. '' KMA is mindful of the importance of precautionary measures in avoiding pollution incidences and the need for prompt and effective action to minimize the damage which may result from oil pollution,'' the DG said. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content He added that KMA in conjunction with other stakeholders developed the National Oil Spill Contingency Plan. ''The purpose of this Plan is to a provide a framework to Kenya Maritime Authority (KMA), relevant Government agencies and the oil industry to respond to oil spill emergencies likely to occur within our waters,'' he said. He said that the workshop which brings together participants from different government ministries, departments, agencies as well as private stakeholders with roles in responding to marine  spills aims at testing the effectiveness of the Contingency Plan in responding to its intended purpose. ALSO READ:

Dalbit Petroleum receives prestigious award from KRA ''The objective of the workshop is to enhance knowledge of shoreline clean-up strategies for the type of oil spilled, the type of shoreline impacted and the equipment available, in the context of developing and strengthening the National Oil Spill Contingency Plan and management systems,'' DG said. The DG noted that the training will also enhance capacities to organize and manage an effective shoreline clean-up response, including general understanding of how to organize shoreline surveys and surveillance. '' This training is appropriate for Lamu County due to the sensitivity of its shoreline which is mainly comprised of mangroves,'' he said. Okongo' said that the training will leverage on best practices through class work, table-top exercises and largely through field-exercises and will also focus on how to manage oil spill clean-up operations in sensitive ecosystem such as mangrove forest areas that border the shoreline. The DG said that it is further envisaged that the workshop will also act as a starting point for developing a county specific oil spill contingency plan for Lamu County which will help the County in responding to oil spill incidents. Lamu County Director of Environment, Mr Mohamed Athman Baishe is also attending. ALSO READ:

Youth take over management of city toilets