Edna Moraa, a mother of three, vividly recalls the early morning at Kongasis after being summoned by the area local administrator to help solve a dispute she was implicated in by a neighbour. As she patiently waited to hear a word from the chief, an Administration Police (AP) officer approached her and begun pouncing blows on her and her husband Josphat Mireri. ALSO READ:

Former Gilgil MP's wife dies in hospital Further, the officer only identified as Odinga, is said to have directed the two into holding cells within the camp where he assaulted them, and their cries for forgiveness fell on deaf ears. “It was wrong for an officer to lock me in a cell together with my husband, order us to lie on the floor and beat us up with a baton. I sustained injuries on my ribs,” Moraa told The Standard during a visit at her home. Land dispute The couple reported the case at Elementaita Police Station under OB Number 11/20/9/2018 but it is alleged officers further threatened them against pursuing the issue. “We were told point blank at the station that we cannot win a case against a police officer. This was demoralising and because they are the Government, we decided to drop it despite having been our wish to see justice take its course,” she said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Her husband was treated at Kongasis Health Centre. “Police should be part of individuals to solve dispute, but they continuously harass and harm innocent individuals. For example, how would I engage in my normal casual work to earn a living?” posed Mireri who is yet to heal. The couple is not alone. Ibrahim Joy was allegedly locked at Kongasis AP post holding cells for two days following a land dispute. He was released after allegedly bribing the officers with Sh3,000. ALSO READ:

It’s a tough time for church after crash The father of nine lodged the complaint at Elementaita Police Station under OB Number 07/23/03/2018 and was refereed to GIlgil OCPD. “Police are brutal, they arrested me claiming I was too arrogant at a time I was fighting to re-possess my parcel of land from the hands of grabbers,” said Joy from Simo village in Gilgil. Whereas the Government is working towards integration of police officers where they are expected to live with communities under implementation of police reforms, the victims say there should be a proper mechanisms for its success. Phyllis Nyaboke, a mother of five, is living in fear after she was allegedly attacked by police officers last month at Kware village. Nyaboke said officers raided her home while she was working on her shamba and beat her up, claiming she was farming on an illegally-acquired parcel. “Police attacked me as my children watched. I cried but they could not hear and further attacked my husband,” said Ms Nyaboke. Benjamin Koech was escorted with his aged mother Grace Cheptum after being summoned by the area chief two weeks ago. ALSO READ:

Woman raped, murdered in Gilgil Koech said her mother had been summoned after she fenced her compound that locals used to trespass, an issue that annoyed many. He accompanied her to the station and even without being heard, he was dragged into cells and roughed up. Nelson Kipyegon Rerimoi is another victim nursing injuries at the Rift Valley Provincial General hospital after allegedly being attacked by the police for trespass. Rerimoi, who is in a critical condition, was allegedly stabbed with a knife by two officers who raided his house Mosop village on October 28. The victim’s wife, Gladys Chepkoskei, said her husband arrived at home at around 6.30pm and as he entered the bedroom, they heard knocks on the door. “I went to check and they were three people, one my neighbour and two other in civilian who introduced themselves as police officers and said they wanted my husband for trespassing,” she said. The three then got into the house and dragged Rerimoi to the sitting room and started roughing him up and one picked a knife and stabbed him. Under influence During commotion at the house, one of the officers who was under the influence of alcohol is alleged to have sat on a one-week-old baby who was sleeping on a chair at the main room. The victim’s brother Albert Kipsang said he lodged a complaint at the Independent Police Oversight Authority (IPOA), in Nairobi, on October 29 and was advised to report the case at Elementaita police station, but was not offered with an OB. Gilgil OCPD Emmanuel Opuru dismissed claims of police brutality, saying victims should always report cases of misconduct for action. Dennis Oketch, IPOA head of communication, said investigations into police brutality in the area is ongoing.