A 17-year-old KCSE candidate in Murang’a is the latest victim of rabies after an encounter with a rabid dog. Mary Muthoni, a candidate at Nguthuru Secondary School in Kandara, was bitten by a stray dog, two weeks after her sister Lucy Wambui succumbed to the disease. ALSO READ:

Man kills two relatives in cold blood Her mother, Donata Karimi Ndegwa revealed that her daughter was attacked by the stray dog Rukira village in Muruka area on Tuesday when heading home from school. The family is now in agony over the cost of anti-rabies vaccines from private chemists, after Murang’a County government facilities run out of stock. “It is a double tragedy to my family as Wambui died as she was sitting for her KCPE in Miting’iri Primary School in the nearby Gatanga sub county. Now Muthoni has fallen a victim of rabies and the family requires assistance from the well-wishers to buy the vaccines,” she said. Karimi said she took her daughter to Thika Level Five Hospital where she found the vaccine was missing and forced to buy it from a nearby chemist. “I bought the vaccine which was administered at Mukura dispensary,” she said adding that she requires five more doses. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content A public health technician in Murang’a County disclosed that anti rabies vaccines were out of stock in the health centres and an order has been placed. “Presently public health department is conducting a campaign educating the public what to do if bitten by a dog,” he said as he requested for anonymity. County Health and Sanitation Executive Mr Joseph Mbai said he was aware of the matter. ALSO READ:

Woman's headless body found in Murang'a “The issue is being handled” he wrote in a text as he declined to respond to why health facilities had run out of ant rabies vaccines. At the same time, Murang’a County Police Commander Mohammed Farah called on residents to report such incidents to any police post for necessary action. “Once the report is made the government agencies will effectively deal with the matter,” he said.