A second suspect in the Sh140 million cash on transit theft in Dubai has been arraigned in court and detained for two weeks pending the completion of the investigations. George Gitau Maina 28, was on Wednesday detained at Muthaiga Police Station after the officers from the Directorate of Criminal investigations (DCI) made an application to detain him for 14 days pending the conclusion of the Investigations. ALSO READ:

Court acquits Christian woman on death row In an affidavit filed by Investigation Officer Emmanuel Ngetich, on May 15,2018 The Inspector General National Police received a letter from Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Gitau left Dubai on March 4,2018 with stolen money amounting to AED 5 Million (Sh140 million). “I am praying that this court issue an order to detain the respondents at Muthaiga police station for a period of fourteen days to allow the investigations to be completed,” said Ngetich. Ngetich said the DCI launched investigations immediately and informed the Director of Immigration Services on May 15, 2018 to place the mentioned suspects on movement control and on July 3, 2018 Rebecca Mueni Musau was arrested in Namanga border control trying to cross to Tanzania without any apparent reasons. He added that she was picked, interrogated and her place of residence in Kamulu Kangundo road was searched and a total of Sh 13,130,000 was recovered without any accountability. The DCI through Interpol Nairobi received an international warrant in case No. 26251/2018 Criminal Dubai against the respondent. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Ngetich said that the second suspect Gitau was arrested on November 6, 2018 at his home in Mwihoko area and a total of Sh 240,000 was recovered from his house with land title deeds. It is said that on March 4, 2018, the respondents together with others not before court stole the said amount from a Company named Transguard cash on transit vehicle destined for refilling ATM at Dierra city mall in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. The officer told Magistrate Bernard Nzakyo that the investigations into this weighty matters require ample time so as to visit areas of interest which the suspect might have hidden other cash including bank accounts. ALSO READ:

I deserve job, says Ndubai son “I swear this affidavit in support of my application for the said respondents not to be granted bail until such time the investigations are completed in order to dissuade them from interfering with the ongoing investigations,” Said Ngetich. Mueni had been arraigned in court on July 5, 2018 where the police also sought to detain her for 14 days. The court further heard that the police will be seeking to have the lady extradited to Dubai where she is wanted. Three Kenyan suspects are believed to have returned to the country after the robbery. United Arab Emirates security operatives are collaborating with Kenya police and Interpol officers in search for the gang. Theft of money on transit is very rare in Dubai, police said. Security firms providing money transit services are trained regularly to keep a track of their employees. The matter will be mentioned on November 21, 2018. ALSO READ:

Robocops, flying cabs to dominate new world order