Police bribes goes for about Sh200 million daily throughout the country Reports indicate that traffic jams cause Sh2 billion losses a year Matatu crackdown has dealt a huge blow to many businesses across the country as trades open to no customers and others fail to open due to owners lack of access to means of transport to the workplace. Many people have been forced to use their cars to work, meaning spending more in terms of fuel and causing traffic jams along the roads which in turn has resulted to losses of millions of money. It has been reported that traffic jams cause Sh2 billion losses a year to the Kenyan economy with matatu industry contributing largely towards the country's gross domestic product. So, the crackdown will not only affect the matatu industry but also the revenue generated by the state from the industry. A case in point, we have more than two million vehicles that ply along our Kenyan roads, if 70 percent of these vehicles have not complied to Michuki rules, then it means only 1.4 million vehicles will be on the roads today. From a total of two million vehicles in the country, only half of the number find their way into Nairobi meaning close to one million vehicles operate through the nation’s capital. Police bribes is averaged to be about Sh200 per vehicle operating on the roads, the total police enticement is therefore about Sh200 million nationwide. In the two million vehicles, say 40 percent are PSVs meaning over 800,000 passenger vehicles with a daily revenue generation of Sh5,000 leads to Sh4 billion realized daily. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content About 70 percent of all PSV’s have not complied to ‘Michuki rules’ therefore, only 56,000 matatus will be available on the roads today therefore many passengers will be stranded on the matatu stages. In Nairobi, the number of matatus that get into the CBD are estimated to be 30,000. Each matatu makes around Sh5,000 a day translating to a total of Sh150 million revenue generated daily. Around 70 percent of these matatus have not complied to Michuki rules, meaning only 9,000 matatus will be plying through the route raising Sh4.5 million, a 3 percent realization and 97 percent drop in daily revenue generated from the sector. There are approximately 750,000 passengers who travel daily throughout the country, each spends a rough estimate of Sh300 per day in terms of fares meaning Sh225 million will be lost daily if matatus crackdown remains unabated. Many studies have indicated that about 70 percent of Kenyans population use matatus as their means of transport with a driver and conductor pocketing an average of Sh23,000 and Sh18,000 a month respectively. Close to Sh300 mllion shillings will be lost daily until all PSV’s comply to safety measures.