The Government has set up a task force to look into the challenges facing the sugar industry and recommend solutions. The 16-member team will be headed by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. ALSO READ:

Revealed: What next for Central Kenya after Uhuru exit The team is expected to identify the issues affecting farmers and come up with solutions to make the sector competitive again. During the Mashujaa Day celebrations in Kakamega, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered that the task force be formed as the Government made efforts to revive the sector. Mr Kiunjuri, while unveiling the team yesterday, said the task force would seek to address all the concerns farmers had raised, including nonpayment for cane delivered. “Over the years, the sugar industry has suffered a number of challenges which have led to inadequate production of sugar and denied our farmers steady income,” he said. The task force is also expected to review the laws and policies governing the sugar sector. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. It will look into ways of addressing past, present and emerging challenges in the industry. The team will also evaluate importation of sugar and taxation structures while undertaking a comparative assessment of the industry’s competitiveness in the East African Community, the Common Markets for Eastern and Southern Africa as well as world markets. Different stakeholders ALSO READ:

Narok livestock farmers to reap big from Sh750 million tannery It will analyse the roles of different stakeholders and make recommendations on how they can work with both levels of government to improve the sector. The team is expected to submit its report in 30 days. Other issues that have plagued the sugar industry include cane poaching, low cane supply, poor equipment and outdated technology and debts, especially for public millers. Most public millers are unable to pay salaries and remittance workers’ statutory deductions. Excessive importation of sugar has also affected the industry. Kiunjuri said the team would visit North Rift next week before going to western Kenya to address farmers’ concerns.