Ikombe Day and Boarding Primary School has recorded exemplary results in the national examinations for the past three years. The institution located in the remote Ikombe village in Yatta Constituency emerged the top school countywide with a mean score of 418.57 marks in this year's Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examinations. ALSO READ:

School that lost 14 pupils in Solai dam tragedy triumphs in KCPE When The Standard visited the school yesterday, head teacher Abenego Mbondo was celebrating with teachers, parents, pupils and locals. Mr Mbondo said the secret behind the school's impressive performance was teacher discipline, good morals, teamwork, motivation, commitment to work and delegation of duties. “As a school, we have made it our custom to accommodate all in the education sector to make it possible for our pupils to shine in the national examination. Prayers and dedication have been our pillars,” said Mbondo. He said it was by God’s grace that the school was ranked the best public institution in last year’s KCPE examinations, adding that they expected results to improve because of fostering a good working relationships among all parties. Frank Mutua, the chairman of the school's board of management, said the school had maintained close ties with all education stakeholders, thus enabling its rise to the top. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Committed team “We have a committed team of teaching and non-teaching staff, and other stakeholders who have made the high marks possible. We owe this to God. Through relentless prayers we can say today that God has been good to us. We thank all those who made us come this far,” said Mr Mutua. The chairman said the school had arranged for trips for its teachers to Tanzania and other destinations to motivate them to work harder in the future. ALSO READ:

Nyamagwa boys found in girls’ dorm to sit KCSE from home The school, which was founded in 1967, has 637 pupils from pre-primary to Standard Eight. Mondo said he had been at the helm for the last nine years. He said the top pupil, Miriam Rita, scored 441 marks while the pupil with the least marks out of 95 candidates scored 399 marks. The head teacher said two candidates, Daniel Kiseke and Hillary Oruru, tied with 439 marks.