A Jubilee nominated Member of County Assembly was forced out of a private members club after going berserk in a bar and hitting a reveler with a beer bottle. A video clip of Susan Nyambura and her husband Patrick Minjire hitting Richard Nderitu with the beer bottle and pouring alcohol on him went viral on Sunday, causing uproar among Jubilee Party members in Nakuru County. "Blood was spilt...it was like the Wild West in there,” said one stunned member of the club. The video shows Mr Minjire pinning Nderitu on the floor as his wife (Nyambura) hits him with the beer bottle several times before pouring alcohol on him. It is not the first time that Nyambura is involved in an altercation in public. She was among four MCAs who were reprimanded by Speaker Joel Kairo for gross misconduct, violation of Chapter Six of the Constitution and the Leadership and Integrity act. On Saturday, Nyambura is said to have attacked the member after exchanging insults. She declined to comment on the issue but the victim told The Standard that the issue arose a matter dating back to four years ago. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Mr Nderitu explained that the fight did not start between him and the couple but with another man within the club before the duo joined and clobbered him. "There was a confrontation between me and another client at the club as we were drinking. In the process the MCA who is known to me joined in and a fight erupted," said Nderitu. He added that while he tried to defend himself from the two, the MCA's husband who is also the club chairman joined and held him on the floor as she walloped him. "When Minjire came in he didn't even ask what had happened. He came to the defence of his wife who was digging into my face with glasses as she sat on me," he said. In the video, Nyambura is captured pouring alcohol on Nderitu's face while the husband pins him on the floor. Nyambura accused Nderitu of spreading false information about the health status of her family. "What drugs have you seen me or my husband using? How did you get to know such information? Have I gotten pregnant by you? I have been married for over 20 years and you want to destroy that?" the MCA harangued a helpless Nderitu who was bleeding on the floor. As Minjire left the beaten reveler, he warned he would not allow him to keep misbehaving at the members club. "I am the chairman of this club and you won't keep insulting other members in my presence," Minjire said. Nderitu has however dismissed the claims that he insulted or made the remarks alleged by the MCA saying that the fight was due to personal differences they had for a long time. "I didn't say all that she alleged and I'm just recollecting what happened since the fight did not start between me and her,” he said. Nderitu said that he had reported the matter at Nakuru Central Police station but area OCPD said he was not aware of it. "The incident didn't happen within the area of my jurisdiction. He must have been referred back to Njoro Police Station," said Nakuru OCPD Samuel Obara. A spot check by the Standard at Njoro Police Station revealed that none of the antagonists reported the matter. Nyambura’s behavour has not come as a surprise to the local leadership of Jubilee Party. Jubilee County Secretary General Peter Cheruiyot said the assembly has been at the centre of a storm over disciplinary and integrity issues. “As a party we have taken up the matter and soon we will communicate our decision about the behaviour of MCAs,” he said adding the party is greatly concerned over frequent indiscipline mostly by nominated members. Since the ward reps were sworn in last year, there has been an unprecedented cases of indiscipline among the members.