President Uhuru Kenyatta and China's  President Xi Jinping in Shanghai on Saturday ahead of the inaugural China International Import Expo. [Courtesy] After President Uhuru Kenyatta announced online that he was in China for bilateral talks with President Xi Jinping, Kenyans it was a flurry of mixed reactions on social media. ALSO READ:

Narok livestock farmers to reap big from Sh750 million tannery Today I met with the President of China H.E. Xi Jinping in Shanghai, China????????. Our talks focused on promoting economic and trade exchange and cooperation between our two countries ahead of the inaugural China International Import Expo (CIIE) #CIIE2018 pic.twitter.com/WM8PU3wvKd While in China, President Uhuru is expected to sign a horticulture trade deal which will allow Kenya to export fresh produce such as avocados, cashew nuts and mangoes to China. The visist comes on the heels of some unease after President Uhuru hinted at protective tarriffs  agaisnt Chinese fish exports to Kenya with Beijing ambassador to Kenya talking of a trade war. Most reactions urge against taking more Chinese loans. Here, are some of them on Twitter: Waambie watuweke CRB ili tusiombe tena.Keep your hands in the Pocket. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. unaomba deni ingine kamwana!!ni nini ingine unadiscuss si ulikuwa huko two months ago hamukumalizana ......najua utatoka huko kama amekuingiza box tukule samaki zao....
— miks (@AnthonyMikwa) November 4, 2018 Kindly comeback with the China (KRA) Account Number, we need to pay duties and taxes directly to their KRA #PunguzaDeni
— Solo ngatia (@ngats) November 4, 2018 Surely prezo,You giving China too much priority. Si ajabu tuone sgr ya kwenda China. Tunaeza jitegemea, you should focus venye tutamaliza loan yao. ALSO READ:

NLC unearths dubious compensation meant for fluorspar locals Wale wako na simu za nguvu mzoom muangalie kama Uhunye ako na biro
— mutembei (@Njoro83444212) November 4, 2018