Two brothers and a taxi driver died on the spot on Tuesday, while three others escaped with multiple head injuries and fractures after an accident in Makueni. The two brothers who died in the accident were Mulinge Muswimi, 8, and his younger brother Mike Musyimi, 6. ALSO READ:

Fact-Checker: Insurance firms only compensate risks DPP According to the police report, Mulinge and the taxi driver, James Mulwa King’oo died on the spot while the third one succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at Makueni level 4 hospital on arrival. Makueni OCPD Bosita Omukholongolo said the self-involving accident of motor vehicle KCF 180 W make Toyota Axio happened at Muinga Bridge along Wote-Machakos road. “The accident that killed the three people happened at Muinga Bridge some meters past Kilala market and the car was coming from the Machakos direction to Wote. The car landed down the bridge upside down,” read a statement from the OCPD Bosita. At Makueni level 4 Hospital where the three casualties were receiving treatment, a woman identified as Jacky Kyule with hand fracture said they had hired the car to ferry her four children from Nairobi where they school to have their holiday at their home in Kako, Mbooni constituency before the unfortunate befell them. “We hired the car from Nairobi and I wanted to take my children home for their holiday. The journey was all safe but when we reached the scene of the accident I can’t tell exactly what happened… the car flew into the bridge,” said Jacky Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. She continued: “We all become unconscious for some time but I was stirred up by a villager who came to rescue us and that’s when I saw the driver and one of the children lie dead on the ground”. Stephen Kathini, a relative said he had received the news of the accident at around 8 AM today (Wednesday) and swiftly moved to the hospital to take care of the injured as they ponder the next move for the burial. “We received the news of the deaths at around 8 AM and we moved here to make arrangements on their treatment and monitor their progress”, said Muthini. ALSO READ:

Court orders arrest of MP's wife Elsewhere, two people sustained injuries after a car they were traveling in plunged into River Kaiti some few meters from Wote town along Machakos-Wote road. A passenger and the driver of the hired car were taken to Makueni level 4 hospital. Police said that the driver tested positive of alcohol. Makueni County Commissioner Maalim Mohammed warned the public from hiring cars at this festive from people they know little about. “Car hire service providers should have responsible drivers and those hiring the cars should also be keen since one of these accidents has been confirmed to have been caused by driving under influence of alcohol”, said Maalim. He said the driver will be arraigned in Court. The dead were taken to Makueni level 4 hospital mortuary and the cars towed to Makueni police station. ALSO READ:

Government orders Kenya Railways to reduce fares