The just ended examinations marked start of the grand count down to the end of cut-throat KCPE, with the candidates listed as the fifth last class to sit the tests under the 8-4-4 system. Details of the new 2-6-3-3-curriculum implementation schedule reveal that KCPE examinations will only be done in the next four years. ALSO READ:

Why teenage pregnancy has become national nightmare The implementation of the new education system will gradually phase out the old system that lays more emphasis on examinations, ushering in a new dawn on teaching and learning. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) has acknowledged that based on previous studies, the current 8-4-4 curriculum has been widely criticised for failing to recognise and nurture the talents and interests of learners early enough. In its report, the Summative Evaluation of the Curriculum (KIE, 2009), KICD indicates that the 8-4-4-curriculum content and its implementation was academic and examination oriented. KICD Director Jwan Julius said the current curriculum makes little provision for the recognition of the learners’ potential, gifts and talents due to too much focus on examination. This has contributed to increased drop outs and high unemployment, Jwan said. However, as focus shifts to the new system, ministry officials say the 2–6-3-3 system will eliminate individualised national examinations and introduce Continuous Assessment Tests (CATs). There will also be no wastage as all children will transit to the next class and career paths – arts and sports, social sciences and STEM­ – created at secondary level. And as some one million children sat this years KCPE, the countdown to the last of the examinations was also ticking. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed announced that the government will next year fully roll out the new competency based curriculum from grade one to three following successful piloting.