 Lillian Chebet’s daughter was diagnosed with schizophrenia when she had just finished high school. She was 18, and her first symptoms came as extreme mania. She had just presented an application to college and got an acceptance letter. She got so excited that she danced, yelled, and cheered till she collapsed into a helpless heap. ALSO READ:

Shock as man commit suicide over hard life “We knew something was not right. We even suspected she was doing drugs because before then, she was a relatively quiet child,” says Chebet. Then came the downswing a few weeks later. She would sit in bed and stare into space, sometimes bursting into uncontrollable sobs or showing signs of irritability that made everyone around her feel like they were walking on thin eyes. After a series of tests, she was found to be suffering from schizophrenia. “Her doctor put her on medication that calmed her. She even went to campus and had several appointments with her therapists. One day, she came home and told us she was no longer taking her medication because they made her feel different and that she did not want people in school to know she is sick,” says Chebet. In 2011, she got pregnant. Then she had another baby soon after. Despite pleas for her to get medication to control her condition, she refused. Not even a change of therapist would make her change her mind. She now has four children, and Chebet says her biggest headache has been trying to get her get medication to allow her make informed decisions on her sexual health. she has dropped out of school and sometimes when she gets into depression, she forgets that she has children. “I worry about her. She keeps giving birth. Sometimes I wish I could get her contraception so that she does not give birth. I know it is illegal, but what do I do? Anytime I ask, I am told that I cannot do it for her” she says. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Dr. Catherine Syengo, consultant psychiatrist in Nairobi says when left untreated, some mental illnesses can make patients hyper-sexual, making them vulnerable to pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases, especially during the manic stage. “It is important for them to get treatment for their mental illnesses so that they can make decisions regarding their sexuality and contraception. They cannot be forced to go on contraceptives before their mental illness is addressed,” she says. She adds that for the  intellectually disabled or those suffering from dementia, the discussion on whether they should be put on contraception should not matter, because people who are engaging in sexual relations with them should be arrested. ALSO READ:

German Catholic Church to own up to decades of child abuse “They do not have capacity to give consent, so the talk  should be on how to keep them safe from abuse because people engaging in sexual relations with them are abusing them,” she says. Rose Gakii Kirimi who has bipolar disorder and is currently under medication says even though in an ideal situation, people with mental illnesses should be put under care, it is not always the case. She recalls her journey towards getting a proper diagnosis, and the decisions and mistakes she made before doctors finally told her she has bipolar. She admits that she had pendulum swing of moods that would sometimes push her into reckless behavior. “You can feel things happening to your body, but you do not know why. You start concluding that you have an evil mind or you are weird,” she says, explaining that most people who have mental illnesses never have a platform to discuss sexuality, yet their condition makes them vulnerable to abuse. “I know of many people with mental illnesses who are getting pregnant and having children because of the many episodes of mania that come with it. Someone needs to talk to them about mental health and responsible choices, or just allow them to access contraceptives,” she says. Dr. Nelly Bosire Obstetrician/Gynaecologist practicing in Nairobi says contraception and mental illness is a subject that needs a multi-disciplinary approach. She believes if there were sufficient facilities to care for patients with mental illnesses, then they would not be as vulnerable to sexual exploitation. “If we had the capacity to address mental illnesses, we would not even be discussing whether patients should be put on contraceptives or not. The ones who have intellectual disabilities should be in safe places where they are not vulnerable to abuse,” she says. Kirimi says most people do not get medication and care for their mental illnesses because it is too expensive. Monthly doses cost more than sh. 30,000 and most insurance companies do not cover mental illnesses. Statistics show that 5 in 6 Kenyans with mental conditions are not under treatment. 

Most hospitals do not do a background check on patients before issuing contraceptives, and medics warn that the hormones in some contraceptives could trigger episodes in people with pre-existing conditions. Chitayi Murabula, a psychiatrist in Nairobi says before contraceptives are prescribed for patients with mental illness, a review must be done to ensure it is necessary. "They could want children after they have undergone treatment, so they should not be forced into taking contraceptives," he says. he advises that in cases of acute illness, the community should be empowered on how to live with the patients and protect them from sexual predators.