Since the launch of Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) train services last year, the project has vindicated itself, becoming a significant component of the country’s overall infrastructure revitalisation and transformation. The Madaraka Express, which operates four trains daily between Nairobi and the port city of Mombasa, has hauled over 1.9 million passengers. The passenger service has become safe, efficient and punctual. ALSO READ:

Devolve port services, Senate committee says To handle increasing demand, coaches on the route have been increased from 11 to 20, while online booking has been introduced to improve the interface with customers. Cargo services came on board at the start of this year and the uptake has been positive. Cumulatively, the SGR has moved more than two million tonnes (twenty foot equivalent container units). The target is to increase the number of trains from the current eight to 12. Bulk cargo freight has been launched. Transportation of non-containerised cargo has already began in earnest. The main relief line to the conventional cargo area yards at Mombasa Port is ready, and is expected to break bulk cargo like grains, fertiliser, steel and clinker. To provide human capacity, the Railway Training Institute has trained more than 2,000 staff already working in the sector. Some 100 students are undergoing training in China. Any transport system is only as important as the reach of its corridor and the network that feeds it. Thus, the 120km SGR Phase 2A between Nairobi - Naivasha is progressing well and the few challenges that recently beset it have now been resolved amicably. The project is underway and expected to be ready next year. The line proceeding from Naivasha to Kisumu will be undertaken immediately on the completion of Phase 2A. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The modernisation of the Nairobi Commuter Rail (NCR) will be done under World Bank funding. KRC is building new stations in Ruiru, Dandora, Githurai, Kahawa, Mwiki, Embakasi Village, Athi-River and Kikuyu, for this service. KRC will also set up economic and logistics centres in Athi River and Suswa. SGR freight operations have greatly boosted cargo transportation and port efficiency. Mombasa port is the most connected in the region with at least 33 shipping lines providing direct connectivity to more than 80 ports globally. SGR has lowered conventional cargo volumes and congestion, positioning the port as a logistics hub. Some 1,300 containers arrive at the port daily, with 800 being loaded to the trains bound for the Nairobi Inland Container Depot (ICD). Thanks to SGR freight services, the Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) is now operating around the clock. ALSO READ:

Trucks still carry more containers than SGR SGR has proved that it is uneconomical to move cargo by road. Moving cargo by train translates into less wear and tear on the road, while significantly contributing to economic growth. It also bolsters value addition on Kenyan exports. Operationally, KRC, in conjunction with the operator China Road and Bridge Corporation, have ensured that timelines are respected and adhered to. Both passenger and freight services are running efficiently. The impact of SGR is being felt across the entire business and commercial spectrum, giving credence to the government’s strategic objective to develop infrastructure in the country. We have delivered an environmentally sound public transport system with minimal damage to the ecosystem. We have revamped the country’s dilapidated railway system after more than a century. Jobs have been created for our people, while our youth have a chance to acquire high level skill-sets for the sector. Local businesses, including suppliers, have a stake in the SGR project, which translates in economic growth. We are in talks with transporters to explore how they can leverage the SGR. We have ensured the contractor undertakes programmes along the corridor to improve the livelihood of communities. Land compensation for Project Affected Persons (PAPs) remains a challenge, but we are in the process of finalising all claims to ensure the project proceeds on time. Certain aspects of the relations between Chinese nationals working for the SGR project and their Kenyan counterparts have raised eyebrows. In cases of proven breaches, we have taken concrete steps to find closure. KRC will endeavour to achieve excellence and to benchmark SGR services with the world’s best operated railway systems. ALSO READ:

Lorries carry more containers than SGR, says report - The writer is the Acting Managing Director of Kenya Railways Corporation. 