A new Anglican Church of Kenya bishop has urged leaders to be accountable to the people and not abuse their power. Speaking during his consecration and enthronement, Maseno South Bishop Charles Ong’injo said those holding public offices must account for every penny disbursed to them. “One of the most serious factors affecting development in the counties and Kenya is the greed of leaders to remain in power forever and failing to deliver diligent services to the people,” he said. Over the years, most leaders cling onto power because they fear being held accountable for either the political crimes they committed or for social and economic mess they created when in apex of power. Therefore, the leaders create loopholes that ensure they retain power. Such selfishness, the cleric claimed was to blame for skirmishes witnessed in each election cycle. Quoting British Political scholar Lord Acton, Bishop Onginjo (pictured) said “absolute power demoralises many”. Economic ventures Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. He said he would assess what the Anglican Church had done for faithful in Kisumu County and come up with more social programmes responsive to the needs of the people. “...If we don’t come up with innovative ways to attract and retain the flock and to engage in viable economic ventures, we will be doomed,” he said. Ongijo prayed for a reduction in social vices. “But parents or sugar daddies must be painfully made to know they cannot kill our children and run away with it,” he said. He also warned MPs, that they must stand up and exercise their legislative duties without falling prey to corruption. Nyando MP Jared Okello and his Nyakach counterpart Aduma Owuor were present as well as Kisumu Deputy governor Mathews Owili and a host of County executives and ODM officials and guest bishops. “Voters, should exercise their political power each election cycle to ‘throw political rascals’ out of power if they have nothing to show for the period they served,” he said. “The position you hold is the people’s position bestowed on you by their sovereign power.”