Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka with his father Mzee Peter Musyoka during a past family meeting. [Photo, Courtesy] Predictably politics has dominated the burial of Wiper leader Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka's father at Mwingi, Kitui County. ALSO READ:

Team set up to probe sugar mess after Uhuru directive “Kalonzo’s journey is not over,” Kipchumba Murkomen said. The Senate Majority leader and Elgeyo Marakwet senator added that every Kenyan, regardless of which part of Kenya they come from, can lead the country. At Tseikuru,  who-is-who in Kenya's politics gathered to send off Kalonzo Musyoka’s father Peter Musyoka, 94. Many remembered the old man as a man who mentored his son, Kalonzo, to be obedient, humble and loyal. Peter dreamed to see his son Kalonzo as the country's President. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Speakers urged Kalonzo to keep his eye on the House on the hill, raising questions on the 2022 succession plan. President Uhuru Kenyatta, who attended the Tseikuru funeral in Kitui North, recently said he will shock Kenyans with his choice of successor. Uhuru has since the March 9 unity deal with opposition chief Raila Odinga been seen to fidget on his support for Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 candidacy. ALSO READ:

Uhuru, Raila should not let Building Bridges Initiative to fail Others present were Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana said the Handshake unity deal is meant to help all Kenyans and foster growth. But in a rejoinder, he was quick to add, "He who thinks will be named may not be named." His statement was in regard to Uhuru's declaration that his 2022 pick may be a shocker. Meanwhile, Senate Minority whip Mutula Kilonzo Jr thanked Uhuru and Raila, lauding them for showing unity. Mutula urged Uhuru to issue stern orders to arrest culprits who impregnate underage girls.   ALSO READ:

How Kenyans have reacted to Uhuru’s visit to China    