 Meghan Markle was only officially welcomed into the royal fold six months ago, when she married Prince Harry at their lavish wedding in Windsor Castle this May. ALSO READ:

Kensington Palace:UK's Duchess of Sussex Meghan Markle is pregnant But in that time it appears the Duchess of Sussex has really set out to make her mark and do things the way she wants - all in a family that has stuck with strict protocols for centuries. She is the first woman of African-American descent to marry into the heart of the Royal Family, and a divorcee, to boot. Yet the seismic change she brought to The House of Windsor has by no means stopped with the exchange of vows - with her brand of get and go West Coast energy earning the nickname 'Hurricane Meghan.' She has wasted no time in putting her stamp on her new in-laws, amid claims she has been determined to do things her way from the start, reports The Mail on Sunday. According to a royal source Meghan is up at 5am rain or shine and her formidable work ethic is like something that palace staff have never experienced before. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. It is only apparently matched by her incessant stream of ideas about how to shape her role - with reports claiming that she sends six or seven texts to palace aides with ideas and requests. And alongside her publicised engagements, Meghan has been conducting a series of ‘undercover’ missions to meet the British people, particularly those associated with good causes. It may be this seismic change that has led to the flurry of change in royal staff over the past few months. ALSO READ:

British royals arrive on landmark trip Down Under Just a few days ago it emerged that Meghan's personal assistant has resigned just six months into the job. The aide, identified only as 'Melissa', is believed to have quit suddenly, shortly after Meghan married into the Royal Family in May. She will soon be joined by the royal couple's private secretary Samantha Cohen, who is set to leave in Spring 2019, and follows Harry's 'right hand man' Edward Lane Fox out of the palace door. Senior communications secretary Katrina McKeever – a point of liaison for Meghan’s family – also quietly left the Kensington Palace press office in September. Some who remain, meanwhile, conduct themselves in ways that might seem unorthodox, with Meghan’s private assistant secretary filmed appearing to shove a photographer away from her boss on the recent Australia tour. In her first royal engagement after getting married on May 17 many commented on how she appeared to have altered her style to be more 'fitting' with the royals. But just a few months later she was back to her more usual style - showing bare legs in shorter styles, not entirely keeping with royal protocol. Since, a source from one of the fashion teams which has visited Kensington Palace told The Mail on Sunday: "Meghan is being told she needs to start dressing less like a Hollywood star and more like a Royal."