Kesses MP Swarrap Mishra (in white shirt) when he donated cows to needy families. [Peter Ochieng, Standard] Kesses MP Swarup Mishra has distributed 35 cows to poor families in a programme aimed at uplifting the residents. ALSO READ:

Boundary review set to kick off in 2020 The families, from Kondoo in Tarakwa, received the animals last week. The MP and his team have been traversing the constituency to identify needy families. “Among the Kalenjin, the things people value most are cows and land. My team has been going around identifying those who genuinely qualify for this assistance,” said Mishra. During his campaigns ahead of last year’s General Election, the MP promised to promote education, agri-business, infrastructure and healthcare He also said he would start programmes to empower youths and the disabled. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content And when giving out the animals, the MP promised to fulfil all the pre-election pledges he made to residents. “We will continue giving out the cows until all the targeted families are covered. I am focused on uplifting the lives of residents socially and economically,” said Mishra. He added: “I want to make sure that my constituents are self-reliant at the end of this term of Parliament. Other than distributing cows, we have lined up many other programmes meant to benefit residents of this area. Leaders from other areas will be flocking here to learn the best practices from us.” ALSO READ:

House rejects December election date Mishra also promised to give Sh100,000 to the candidate who tops the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exam. The second and third candidates will get Sh50,000 and Sh25,000 respectively. “The MP has started fulfilling his pre-election promises and we are happy. I am one of the beneficiaries and I know this cow will uplift my life,” said Caroline Jepkorir. Jepkorir yesterday said she has been selling illicit brew to take care of her siblings since their father died and their mother abandoned them. Jane Wanjiru, 60, said the cow she received would be a turning point in her life. “I had nothing to my name but now I am happy that I am a proud owner of a cow. This cow will no doubt improve my life,” she said.  ALSO READ:

MPs vote on proposal to change election date today