For long, the sale and distribution of alcohol has attracted policy measures to regulate sources, sale and usage. Tipple has become vital to the State because of the money it generates in taxes. It is estimated the industry pays in excess of Sh100 billion in taxes every year. Despite its significance, the near-suffocating grip of government on the sector and numerous taxes have had negative impact on Recommended Retail Prices (RRP). ALSO READ:

KRA to punish buyers for tax sins of non-compliant sellers There also are negative externalities that manufacturers have been forced to contend with, namely, counterfeits and unwarranted increase of over-the counter costs of products. Obvious examples are the widespread disparities in prices of alcoholic drinks in different parts of major cities like Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. Generally, if the motive is to make profit in a price-sensitive economy, the higher you price your bottle, the less volumes you move and vice-versa. Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) missed its 2017/2018 financial year revenue target by Sh172.4 billion. The taxman collected Sh1.48 trillion or an average Sh123.93 billion a month in the year ending June 2018 against a target of Sh1.65 trillion. High-taxes is a key tax policy challenge in the country, aggravated by the presence of illicit alcohol market because consumers shift towards them when the taxed formal products are too expensive. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. The consumer A clear explanation for this from the alcohol industry perspective is that the volatile tax rates imposed on alcoholic beverages cause drastic changes in the prices. This leaves the consumer with the option of stopping consumption or being forced to look for cheaper, unregulated and unhygienic alcohol outside the tax system. If you sum up the effect of high taxes and acquiescent over-the counter inflation caused by businesses that sell alcohol-on the far side of the RRP, you end up with a situation where the formal product is priced way beyond the reach of the ordinary Kenyan, giving rise to alternative black markets where KRA cannot collect taxes. ALSO READ:

Don't shift burden of compliance to taxpayers This is why the taxman should work with mainstream alcohol manufacturers not only to keep taxes minimal, but also ensure that retailers sell at the RRP. But rubbing this kind of thinking on retailers will not be easy. Nothing can cause confusion and doubt in a business like pricing your products and services. While you don’t want to charge less than you are worth, you also don’t want to price yourself out of the market. The biggest question alcohol manufacturers and distributors sometimes grapple with is, how do you know if your price is right?It can be tempting for suppliers and retailers to enter into discussions over the recommended price customers should be charged for products. However, there are limits to what the law permits. Recommended retail prices, despite their non?binding nature, influence consumers’ willingness to pay by setting a reference point. For alcohol, it’s been proven that Kenyan consumers buy more where retailers adhere to the RRP, and demand drops at prices above the RRP. Corresponding drop Those who usually sell expensively have been subjected to similar anchoring effects before, but for some reason have not been able to anticipate consumers’ behaviour and have thus been unable to exploit their behavioral biases. Similarly, the biggest lesson we’ve learnt from unpredictable rise of excise tax on mainstream alcohol and spirits is that every rise leads to a corresponding drop in accounted consumption, especially at the bottom of the pyramid where prices are sensitive. In turn, this leads to a rise in illicit brews and a drop in tax collections. ALSO READ:

Court orders State to release seized sugar after it passes quality test The symbiotic relationship that the rise in alcohol taxes and discretionary over-the counter inflation has on KRA’s final revenue figures should incentivise the taxman to encourage retailers to sell at RRP in order to encourage consumption of licit alcohol. Many factors influence a retailer’s bottom line, including properly priced products that hit the sweet spot of maximising unit sales without sacrificing the profit per unit. The message KRA and alcohol manufacturers should preach is that understanding your business cost structure and choosing the right pricing strategy are both crucial steps for retailers to achieve their profit goals. For KRA and alcohol manufacturers, this only points to one thing. They both need to work together. What is important is to ensure that prices are set at the right level to ensure that critical investments are made such that supplies are sustainable, economically. Ms Nkutha is a certified accountant has also worked as marketer of alcoholic beverages. sarunkutha@gmail.com