A General Service Unit (GSU) officer is being held at Njoro Police station after he allegedly defiled a form three student. The officer, Bernard Kipngetich Sang alias Collins, is accused of luring the minor, a student at Mwigito Excel Secondary school whom he took to a lodging at Neissuit market where he detained and defiled her for four days. ALSO READ:

Government must rein in on sex pests Confirming the arrest, Nakuru Police Commander Hassan Barua has said the minor, 17, was reported missing on November 10 and would later resurface on November 14. "We are holding a GSU officer in our cells after he allegedly lured a form three student and took her to a lodging and defiled her for four days,” said Barua. The Police boss said parents of the student had reported about her missing and when she reported back home, it was discovered she had been picked by the officer who is stationed at a GSU camp in Marsabit County. “The mother informed police of the missing student, and we together kept seeking her whereabouts. She would later report back home and revealed that she was with the GSU officer,” said Barua. Barua said after receiving the information, police officers at Njoro arrested Sang and the minor and locked them at the station. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content The student was later taken to Njoro Sub-county hospital for medical examination. “Police arrested both parties and locked them at the station where they are undergoing investigations,” he said. He said once investigations are completed, both parties shall be arraigned at the courts, where Sang will be charged with defilement. ALSO READ:

GSU officer in Monica's murder case released Barua warned polcie officers against being involved in crimes saying they were expected to be part of individuals who help enforce law. “Discipline is vital in operation of officers, they are therefore expected to help restore order in the society and not be part of those indulging in crime,” said Barua. In recent past, police officers have been implicated in several crimes in the county. Several cases have been launched against police in Gilgil where brutality is said to be order of the day for officers who raid homes and beat up innocent residents. Two weeks ago, AP officers were implicated in an assault case of a causal laborer in Kongasis area who has been nursing abdominal complications at the Rift Valley Provincial General Hospital. Nelson Kipyegon Rerimoi, a victim of police brutality was allegedly stabbed at his home on October 28, and later locked at Kong'asis AP post in critical condition before being rescued by a relative. In another incident, four police officers were implicated in robbery at Olenguruone on September 17, 2018. They raided the home of Eliud Langat, a former Chief Executive Officer of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) on September 14. ALSO READ:

Foreigner who defiled three Kenyan girls arrested The case of the four is ongoing at the Nakuru Law court.