Holiday makers watch acrobats at the Severin Sea Lodge in Mombasa on December 24, 2016. [Photo, File] Mombasa based Severin Sea Lodge is the official hotel for international airline crew from Europe flying into the Port City. ALSO READ:

Tourism Fund targets Sh3.5b from levies Severin Sea Lodge Front Office Manager, Mr Walter Mureithi said that they are delighted at the opportunity to be hosting crew of airlines that bring in tourists to the Kenyan Coast. '' It is a big honour for us to be the designated hotel of choice in Mombasa where international airline crew check in for their much deserved short stays as they await new flight rotations,'' Mureithi said. Apart from Tui Fly Brussels crew, other international airline crew who check in at the hotel include Condor (Thomas Cook), Blue Panorama, Air Italy (Meridiana) and Tui Fly Netherlands respectively Mureithi spoke on Friday evening during a special cocktail held for crew of the inaugural Tui Fly Brussels that landed last week after resuming flights to Mombasa from the Belgian Capital of Brussels. Speaking on behalf of the crew , Captain Vercaenst Bruno who was at the commands of a Dreamline aircraft during the resumption flight lauded the hotel high level of hospitality and said that destination Mombasa was must visit for all tourists. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content '' I have flown to your beautiful city before as a normal tourist  together with my family and know what it is to holiday here,'' Capt Bruno who has amassed over 14000 hours of flying to several parts of the world said. Local tourism players have in the meantime commended Tui Fly Brussels for deploying a Dreamliner aircraft for the Mombasa route with the Kenya Tourism Federation (KTF) chairman , Mr Mohamed Hersi terming the gesture by Tui Fly Brussels as showing seriousness that the international charter has on the Mombasa route. '' This clearly shows the seriousness and importance that Tui Flyu has on Mombasa and the Kenyan Coast by deploying modern and efficient aircraft that can carry upto 300 passengers on the route which they are making return flight after five years absence,'' he said. ALSO READ:

State extends charter flights deal Hersi who is also the Director of Operations at Pollmans Tours and Safaris said that they are now looking forward to an increase in number of charter flights to Mombasa . Next Wednesday, a second Tui Fly charter flight originating from the Netherlands will be touching down at the Moi International Airport (MIA) heralding a new chapter in tourism resurgency after severa years of a lull in international tourist arrivals. On his part ,Mombasa County Chief Officer incharge of Tourism , Mr Innocent Mugabe said that tourism is one of the most important sectors of the Kenyan economy and in particular the Coast. '' By having more flights into ,Tui Fly will enable more tourists to come and discover magical Kenya and what Mombasa County and the entire Coast has to offer in terms of unrivalled tourism attractions,'' Mugabe said. He said that the County Government of Mombasa under Governor Hassan Ali Joho was committed to working with both stakeholders and the national government tomake Mombasa great again.