 Governor Wilberforce Ottichilo (pictured) has shuffled his Cabinet in what he termed as a bid to improve service delivery. ALSO READ:

Man who sacrificed his education for siblings, children finally sits KCPE Dr Ottichilo made changes in six departments, the first since the executive members took office. “My government has been wobbling. It had people who were not on the same line with me. That is why I have made the changes so that all my officers can work together,” he said. Youth and Sports Executive Marita Agufana, who was recently impeached by the county assembly but reinstated by the court, has swapped places with Education CEC Felistus Barasa. The two departments have been in the spotlight for several months over how they handled their finances, culminating in impeachment motions being tabled in the county assembly against the executives. Pamela Kimwele has been moved from the Public Service docket to Agriculture. Her position has been taken by Paul Mbuni, who was the Agriculture executive. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Chief officers Kenneth Keseko has been moved to the Lands department and Henry Lumbasio takes over from him in the Transport and Infrastructure department. Further, the governor has reassigned two chief officers, with Chrysostom Makhumbiri moving from the Water docket to the department of Youth and Sports, exchanging places with the newly recruited Dominic Kamadi. ALSO READ:

Embu town’s sewer expansion to improve sanitation standards Last week, Mr Makhumbiri brought police officers to the county headquarters to arrest the director of Water, Andrew Otom, after the two had a disagreement. Makhumbiri locked Mr Otom out of his office, but Otom broke the locks and got in. Ottichilo said the wars between the county assembly and the executive had hurt his administration. “If you put two cocks in a house, they will definitely fight. We had a few challenges but we went for a retreat and sorted them out,” he said.