The return of Don Bosco Gichana from a Tanzanian prison and his address at the Gusii Stadium last week brought to the fore the political jostling among Kisii’s young politicians. With their eyes trained on the county’s governorship, the 2022 elections is shaping up to be a battle of money, family standing and clanism. The region is slowly shading off the old and patriarchal political generation that dominated Kisii’s political landscape for years. ALSO READ:

MPs push for Gideon, Raila ticket The retirement of former Cabinet Minister Simon Nyachae from active politics in 2007 might have ushered in a new political era in the region, but the bigger question remains whether the current political leadership is willing and ready to take over the political cloak. The hotly contested 2017 polls saw the rise to power of a new crop of leaders who have been crisscrossing the region seeking to unite the community. Out of the nine MPs who served in the last parliament, only two -- Jimmy Angwenyi and Richard Onyonka -- made it back. Over the past year, political undercurrents in the region have been centred on the battle to succeed Governor Ongwae, whose deputy Joash Maangi is also eyeing the seat. Crowded field From being installed as community elders, funding social activities to enticing the youth through handouts, none of the prospective governor aspirants wants to be left behind. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Maangi and Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati were among the first politicians to declare their interest in the county’s top seat, having been installed as Gusii elders. Maangi says his role as Ongwae’s deputy puts him at a strategic position to take over as the next governor. “Those interested in the seat should get prepared for a tough battle. It is not going to be a walk in the park, but I am prepared to wrestle my opponents. I have gained enough in the past five years to propel me to victory,” Maangi said. On his part, Arati, after being installed a Gusii elder a few months ago, has been attending fund drives and funeral ceremonies to sell his agenda. ALSO READ:

Busy week as Gichana returns home after five-year jail term The self-declared Gusii spokesperson is largely seen as darling of the youth and can easily pull crowds to any impromptu meeting. Known to make well-calculated last minute political moves, the latest entrant in the race, Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka poses the greatest threat to a number of probable aspirants. The eloquent public speaker has earned admiration from across the board for his boldness. His articulate style of expressing public issues has further earned him a good name in the community. Nevertheless, his recent association with Deputy President William Ruto has further sent tongues wagging on what could be his next political move. “There is no doubt that I will go for the county’s top seat,” he said. Political pundits argue that current Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ongera cannot be wished away in the new political formations. ALSO READ:

Ruto tells off his critics over 2022 Ms Ongera, through the Affirmative Action Fund, has managed to reach some of the remote areas of the county, earning approval from the special interest groups in society. Her travels to the county and her closeness to the needy could be a plus in her future political aspirations. Those close to her say she too could be headed for the county’s top seat. “This is a well-guarded secret, but we will definitely announce it once we have put everything in place. The community has started appreciating the role of women leaders and definitely Ms Ongera will shock many in the male dominated Kisii politics,” one of her aides said. Elders’ blessings A career civil servant turned politician, Ezekiel Machogu, first time Nyaribari Chache MP has also shown interest in the seat. “When 2022 nears, I will extensively engage the electorate as usual and decide. I will then pronounce myself at that point. “However, I state that my experience and understanding of government functions, systems and procedures, as well as devolution is unparalleled,” he said. High Court lawyer Edward Begi argues that the rush to have some individuals installed as community elders will never be a plus in the political contest. “Our elders have failed the community. They are being used as mercenaries for hire. These elders don’t control the masses and nobody should be fooled that such activities will ever swing the vote,” Begi said. ALSO READ:

So far most of the proposed constitutional changes miss the mark The returning Gichana, who is also a one-time parliamentary aspirant for Kitutu Chache South, has also said he is going for the governor’s position.