 “Taking a great picture requires perfection,” says Musa Okoth, the founder and creator of Mtaa Africa Films and Nabbis Creations. ALSO READ:

Maasai morans warned against engaging in crime After reviewing some of his art, it’s easy to see that the 10 years he has put into turning his talent into a business are paying off, and the perfection he’s so keen on is within touching distance. Musa, 30, was born in Kabarnet, Baringo County and brought up in Siaya County. He had a humble start, which saw him focus on art to give himself a chance at a better life. It is this start that led to the founding of his businesses, which focus on giving the poor a leg up. “Like for many people in my community, education was a privilege. I was lucky that my parents were able to take me through primary school. “However, by the time I got to Kakamega High School, things were not as rosy, and I wasn’t able to finish my secondary education. Out of school and with no money, I decided to perfect my drawings.” At 17, Nabbis, as he’s referred to by most people in his community, moved to Nairobi to decorate matatus. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content “I’d make up to Sh1,000 a day from painting matatus. I was living in a slum in Jerusalem estate and was able to survive. And then the Michuki rules came in and my art was not needed as much as it used to. Soon, I began to feel the pinch of legislation made without public consultation.” Lucky break On the verge of hitting rock bottom, Nabbis was approached by a friend and invited to the set of a film he was working on. He had nothing else going on, so he went. ALSO READ:

Kephis warns farmers on use of uncertified seeds This ended up giving him an idea of what he wanted his future to look like. “I asked to join the production team and started off by learning the basics of using a camera and video camera and eventually learnt how to edit video clips. I then moved to Dandora, which sparked within me the desire to be a visual arts expert,” says Nabbis. “People may not agree, but moving from the Jerusalem slum to Dandora was an upgrade. With the knowledge I’d gained, I decided to establish a business.” And that was the beginning of Mtaa Africa Films. It was officially registered in 2013 and to date has produced 100 documentaries, tens of music videos, and is currently participating in the shooting of the film Shaka, which addresses issues of sex and reproductive health. To bring business Mtaa Africa’s way, Nabbis first started out doing video production, which was in demand among young people looking to go into the music business. At the time, they wanted to follow the footsteps of artistes like Ukoo Flani Mau Mau, Kalamashaka and Wenyeji who’d come from their community and captured national attention. “The limitation of finances in the ghetto is unavoidable, so are the empty pay promises. I struggled for a couple of years to get my footing, but now I know my business can stand on its own feet.” ALSO READ:

Governor Wilberforce Ottichilo shuffle Cabinet to improve services Nabbis then registered Nabbis Creations, which focuses on photography, paintings and visual arts. It also mentors aspiring artists. “I currently earn between Sh10,000 and Sh30,000 selling different art pieces.” Nabbis says the skills he’s picked up in film and photography have brought him the kind of respect that allows him to change his community. “It took me years to set up a business structure for my art. By the time I moved to Dandora, I’d carefully strategised and analysed the best way to make a living while building my community. “It is important to find a balance in what you do – the monetary value will bring great satisfaction, but helping to build society, your community and the youth is divinely fulfilling.” Real stories Musa is currently working with Dandora HipHop City (DHC), a creative space for young people in Dandora’s settlements. “The stories about Dandora are real, but I continue to try and change the narrative. Just as in the past, Dandora is a haven of lots of untapped talent, and I’m trying to get this seen and heard outside the confines of our community.” Mtaa Africa Films concentrates on making music videos for young artistes with little more than a dream. “Few or no film producer will accept the few shillings offered by ghetto artistes, but I’m not in that category. Slowly, I’ve managed to make a name for myself in Mathare, Kayole and Kariobangi. I’m soon setting up shop in the Kabete area to tap that market,” Nabbis says. ALSO READ:

How Kenyans have reacted to Uhuru’s visit to China “I cannot count the number of times I’ve faced setbacks in this business, from robbery to unpaid production, but I’m passionate about my art and will keep doing it. Capacity building remains my key focus, and I’m always ready to learn something new.” 