Residents of informal settlements have warned that teenage girls are being lured into a life of crime. Speaking to The Standard yesterday, the locals claimed that criminal gangs were using girls aged 12-15 because they raised little suspicion. ALSO READ:

Driver: I didn't know my passenger was ferrying drugs “It is unfortunate that our girls are falling into criminal traps and being used to sell drugs. This is a worrying trend that might escalate into major crimes if action is not taken,” said Alfred Otieno, the chair of the Bondeni Community Empowerment Programme. The girls are alleged to be selling drugs in Bondeni and neighbouring estates; Kaloleni, Kivumbini, Kisulisuli and Flamingo. Mr Otieno said the most popular narcotics were cocaine, bhang, heroin and an inhalant going by the name ‘mafuta ya ndege’. “Mafuta ya ndege is widely abused by teenagers. You cannot fail to see someone sniffing the substance that is poured into a piece of clothing,” he said. Nakuru Town East community policing chairman Ibrahim Ogeto said 30 teenagers were arrested over the weekend after being implicated in various crimes. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Among those arrested were five girls who were accused of selling and abusing drugs. “It is worrying to see young girls sniff drugs and sell them in the estate. It is a matter of concern that should be addressed,” said Mr Ogeto. The chairman warned that the drug trade had resulted in insecurity, saying that residents were living in fear of being attacked and robbed of their valuables. Most reported thefts, he added, happened between 6.30am and 4.30pm. ALSO READ:

Police seize heroin in make-up carton at JKIA Police commander Hassan Barua, however, said he was not aware of girls being recruited into crime. "What I know is that police officers conduct patrols regularly and in case of an issue, the locals, chiefs and Nyumba Kumi initiative leaders should be free to share their concerns with us,” said Mr Barua. The police boss said they would work with local communities to investigate the drug trade claims and work towards a solution.