Ward representatives want Governor Mike Sonko to clarify his cabinet members' employment terms. This after the contracts of 10 county executives expired last Thursday, which could mean their continued stay in office was illegal. ALSO READ:

Real power lies with the people in Makueni, not MCAs or speaker The Budget and Appropriations Committee yesterday demanded to be furnished with documents showing which executives could continue transacting business legally on behalf of City Hall. Finance and Economic Planning Executive Allan Igambi, who had appeared before the committee last Wednesday, had revealed that he did not know when his contract expired. "I was employed on a one-year contract but I have to refer to the document to see when it lapsed,” said Mr Igambi. County Attorney David Aseko was also hard pressed to explain the current status of employment of the CECs. "We direct that the county attorney should consult the Executive and give documentation on whether the officers' contracts are valid," said Budget committee chair Robert Mbatia. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Mr Mbatia warned that if Mr Aseko did not give prompt feedback, the committee would write a report on the matter without the input of the Executive. The ward reps also threatened to stop engaging in business with the CECs, with Kayole South MCA Fredrick Okeyo expressing concern that it would be an illegality to transact business with executives whose contractual status was unclear. But Aseko said only the County Public Service Board could shed light on the matter. "It is important that we seek the information from the appointing authority because I am not able to tell you about the CECs' contracts." ALSO READ:

MCAs arrested over speaker's assault In October, the board advertised vacancies for five executive positions and indicated that all the executives had signed a one-year contract with the county government.