An upcoming Sh1.2 billion gated community in Katani area near Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) is expected to expand options for Kenyans looking to own a home in Nairobi and to ease the shortage of housing units in the city. The housing project, dubbed ‘Lancet Village’, broke ground last week and is expected to take approximately 24 to 30 months to complete, changing the face of the fast-growing area. It’s composed of 188 units of 2-3 Bedroom Apartments and 4-Bedroom Maisonettes. ALSO READ:

Uhuru's housing agenda could be a game changer Located 10 minutes’ drive from JKIA and the Syokimau Railway stations, and 25 kilometers from Nairobi’s Central Business District, the 10-acre property is being developed by staff members of medical laboratory services operator Lancet Kenya through their Housing Cooperative. Chairperson of Lancet Housing Co-operative Society Patrick Were said that 50% of the units have already been booked with Lancet Laboratories Staff taking majority of the units. The remaining have been opened up for Off-Plan sale to the public. “The units are available to members of the public at discounted rates since they will be purchased Off-Plan. The interest from the public so far has been significant judging from the inquiries we receive and we expect all the units to be bought in the near future,” he said. He attributed the interest to the prime location of the property and expected increase in the property value due infrastructural developments in the area including the Standard Gauge railway and the nearby Katani road currently under construction. He added: “We are glad that we are contributing to the Big 4 agenda of the government that includes affordable housing to our members and other Kenyans.” Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content The 2 bedroom Apartments are selling for Sh5 million, while the 3 bedroom ones are Sh6.5 million. The 4 bedroom Maisonettes are going for Sh10.5 million with various financing options available to buyers from several banks that are in partnership with the Lancet Cooperative. According to the plan, the gated community will have landscaped outdoor areas, private gardens, high perimeter walls with electric fencing, unlimited water supply through borehole, overhead steel water tanks and underground reservoir, stand-by backup electricity generators and recreational areas and play area for children. It will also have a Commercial Area comprising of Mini-Market, Swimming Pool, Fitness Centre, Salon, Barbershop, Restaurant, Bar and Medical Centre & Kindergarten ALSO READ:

Land row a blow to housing initiative Also planned are fiber-optic networks for Internet and cabled TV, Cabro paved driveways, street lights, parking space, CCTV surveillance security system as well as backup water and power supplies for your convenience. Social amenities that are accessible from the area include several primary and secondary schools. Lancet Kenya Labs CEO Dr. Ahmed Kalebi called on housing cooperatives in the country to enhance their efforts to provide their members and other Kenyans with affordable and quality homes through pooling and proper management of their resources. Lancet’s Housing cooperative purchased the land in 2014 for development.