Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi [Archive, Standard] Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi is not interested in continental jobs, his party's spokesperson Barack Muluka says. ALSO READ:

Why 2022 hopefuls are eyeing Western The Amani Secretary-General was speaking during an interview with KTN on Wednesday whre he responded to queries about Amani’s position on the NASA-Jubilee marriage. Co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Raila Odinga (ODM) have recently been offered appointments. Kalonzo is expected to monitor the Juba peace process as head of the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission (JMEC), while Raila was appointed African Union's High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa. Musalia and co-principal Moses Wetang’ula are yet to be offered jobs. Muluka’s comments come in the wake of a shaky Opposition, with politicians viewed previously as having been government critics now shaking hands and striking deals. Following the March 9  announcement of the Uhuru-Raila Odinga rapprochement, supporters called on Musalia and Kalonzo to step up to the plate and lead the Opposition after Raila took a back seat in keeping the government in check. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content However, with Kalonzo's appointment  he is an unlikely choice in the race to replace Raila as the Opposition chief. Kalonzo seems to have stirred a hornet's nest with his remarks that he is willing to be President Uhuru Kenyatta’s errand boy, posturing which has attracted Ukambani leaders’ fury. Some like Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, who is also Wiper chairman, and former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama say the Wiper leader has abandoned his quest for the presidency. ALSO READ:

Mudavadi: No dynasty will lock me out of power Muluka says: “What we have before us is the task of consolidating our party. ANC’s focus is on 2022 and to see who is ready to play the role of opposition leader.” Mudavadi has in the past ruled out taking up a State job, saying he prefers to work with regional leaders such as Wetang’ula and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa to consolidate the Luhya bloc.      ALSO READ:

Mudavadi rejects sugar, maize task forces      