Two employees of quack doctor Mugo wa Wairimu have been charged and detained for a week pending the production of probation report in court. Victor Gathiru Kamunya alias Doctor Victor and Risper Ouma Ogony appeared before Milimani law Courts Magistrate Martha Mutuku on Thursday and denied the charges. ALSO READ:

How rogue ‘doctor’ Mugo wa Wairimu dodged police, court They were charged with unlawful carrying of the business of a pharmacist while not registered by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board contrary to the law. The court heard that on November 3, 2018 at Millan Health International Limited in Kayole, Nairobi, they operated a business of Pharmacist and Poisons Board otherwise in accordance with the provision of the pharmacy and poisons Act. In the second count, the two were charged with carrying out a business of a pharmacist in a premise not registered by the Pharmacy and Poisons board. In the last count, they were charged with operating a medical laboratory without registration and license by the Kenya Medical Laboratory and Technologists Board on similar dates and place. They also faced another count of practicing as unregistered and unlicensed where they are said to have presented themselves as doctors to Mr. Yumbia the KMTTB CEO. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The accused are said to have used the title ‘doctor’ by presenting themselves as Dr Victor having not acquired a higher academic doctoral qualification. They requested to be released on bail claiming that they are just students and they were working at the Pharmacy as interns. “I am a student at Kenya Medical Training College (KMTC) and I was working at the Pharmacy as an intern,” said Gathiru. ALSO READ:

Body of girl, 4, found dumped in maize plantation Ouma on the other hand requested the court to grant her bail claiming that she is also a student at Kiriri College. Magistrate Mutuku said that this is case that requires a probation report before the court makes a determination on bail. The matter will be mentioned on November 15, 2018 when the probation report is expected to be tabled in court. The two have been detained until then.