Drinking three or four cups of coffee a day lowers the risk of diabetes by around 25 per cent, according to new research. The analysis also suggests that both caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee are associated with a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes. Experts gathered at a satellite symposium hosted by The Institute for Scientific Information on Coffee (ISIC) at the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) annual meeting in Berlin to discuss the latest research. The report from ISIC highlights the potential role of coffee consumption on the reduced risk of developing type 2 diabetes, and the potential mechanisms involved. During the symposium, Associate Professor Mattias Carlstrom reviewed the latest scientific research on the association between coffee consumption and type 2 diabetes risk. That included Dr Carlstrom's analysis of the findings of 30 previous studies, involving more than 1.1 million participants. The analysis suggested that drinking three to four cups of coffee per day is associated with an approximate 25 per cent lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Dr Carlstrom, an Associate Professor in the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology at Karolinska Institutet (corr) in Sweden, said: "The inverse association between coffee consumption and type 2 diabetes was shown in both men and women. "Meta-analyses has suggested that both caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee are associated with a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes. "A number of potentially clinically relevant compounds are present in coffee, including caffeine, hydroxycinnamic acids notably chlorogenic acid, trigonelline, diterpenes eg cafestol and kahweol, and caffeic acid.” ISIC is a not-for-profit organisation, established in 1990 and devoted to the study and disclosure of science related to "coffee and health.” ISIC members are six of the major European coffee companies: illycaff, Jacobs Douwe Egberts, Lavazza,Nestle, Paulig, and Tchibo.