A sign at the exit of Shell Petrol Station in Kirimari, Embu town. [Joseph Muchiri, Standard] Ordinarily, businesses go to great lengths to advertise their goods and services to attract more clients, but not so for some traders in Meru. Rattled by the high rate at which their trade is being soiled by a few rotten apples, mechanics in Embu town have put up sign boards along major roads warning motorists about con artist out to reap where they did not sow. In the recent past, a group of “mechanics” have been lining along the roads to lure motorists into their dirty tricks. Donning greasy overalls, the cons stand in wait at the exit of Shell Petrol Station-Kirimari along the Embu-Nairobi Highway where they point the driver to some “issue” on the lower part of the vehicle such as a flat tyre, to lure him to their trap. Driver stops When an unsuspecting driver stops, the cons accomplices damage valves or claim the car has some defects such as loose bolts, ball joints or worn out shock absorbers that they would easily fix. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content They direct the motorist to a roadside destination where they proceed to dismantle some parts claiming they are damaged and pretend to install new spares and afterwards charge exorbitantly. As a result, the Shell Petrol Station has put a signage on the exit warning motorists to “beware of con mechanics ahead”. Tired of being associated with the cons, genuine mechanics in the town are now warning motorists who need repair services for their vehicles to visit garages with own premises to avoid being duped by the roadside cons. The authorities are also aware, with Embu Trade Executive David Kariuki and Eastern regional police boss Moses Ombati, separately, appealing to genuine mechanics to help expose and get rid of the rogue ones. Mr Kariuki said the few youths masquerading as mechanics near the petrol station are ruining the reputation of genuine and qualified mechanics who toil to serve their clients satisfactorily. Speaking during a dinner for mechanics and jua kali artisans organised by Hino Motors and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the weekend, Kariuki warned the cons they would be arrested. “We call on the qualified and genuine mechanics help us get rid of those cons. If anyone wants to become a mechanic, they should get trained and then set up a genuine business or seek employment in garages,” he said. Ombati who addressed the press in his office, urged the public not to condemn all the mechanics as conmen since most were doing a good job and operating within the law. “Kenyans should be cautious not to fall prey into the hands of the cons that may even cause more damage to their vehicles. We tell motorists that if they have issues with those mechanics to report to the nearest police station. The con will be arrested and prosecuted,” he said. Ombati urged the county government to work with law enforcers to crack down on the errant mechanics, saying they should be deregistered. Drama ensued two weeks ago when a man who was driving a new probox car stopped on prompt by a con mechanic and as he was coming out saw the mechanic drilling the back of the car using a metal rod. The driver grabbed a club in the car and chased after the con thrashing him repeatedly and drawing the attention of the public.