Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and Opposition leader Raila Odinga on Wednesday reached an out-of-court deal. In June 2017, the High Court ordered the NASA leader to file submissions supporting his queries on Waiguru’s lifestyle information. ALSO READ:

Address cause of stolen poll wins, handshake team told The former Devolution Cabinet Secretary afterwards filed the defamation case against him. High Court Judge Joseph Sergon at the time issued the orders, saying if Raila does not comply the case will continue without his application being heard. Waiguru told the court she cannot disclose her earnings to Raila, urging it to dismiss the application. The governor said Raila’s queries on her earnings had an ulterior motive. "The defendant having defamed the plaintiff in the absence of any factual matrix now seeks interrogatories to shift the burden of proof through a fishing expedition," read a reply filed before Judge Sergon. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Waiguru said if the Opposition leader wanted to know what she earned as a civil servant and CS he should reach the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. Raila moved to court saying the case she filed should be dismissed as she refused to reply to his written questions on the basic salary she earned between 2006 and 2015. The opposition leader questioned Waiguru’s salary, allowances, list of properties and dependents. ALSO READ:

Raila blamed for DP Nyanza snub But the two met at Capitol Hill and settled the matter. We also reviewed the status of devolution in the country and agreed to exchange views frequently on how to address the challenges. 2/2
— Raila Odinga (@RailaOdinga) November 14, 2018 The Kirinyaga County boss sued Raila for linking her to the first National Youth Service (NYS) scandal, where millions of shillings. In a Tweet, Waiguru said, “In the spirit of cohesion and reconciliation in the country, the matter stands settled.” She added, “We also deliberated on matters of devolution. H.E Right Honorable Raila Odinga confirmed and affirmed his support for it going forward.”­­