Education CS Amina Mohamed at Mama Ngina Secondary School in Mombasa on November 5, 2018. [File, Standard] Administering the ongoing national examination has caused taxpayers billions of shillings as some of the allowances range between Sh6,300 and Sh18,000 a day. ALSO READ:

Kesses MP Mishra donates 35 cows to needy families The exams that started on October 30 will run for a month. Some 1.6 million Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education and Kenya Certificate of Primary Education candidates were registered this year in the project that cost Sh4 billion. Monitoring the exams, however, costs Sh4.2 billion. WHO IS BEING PAID? Among those listed for the allowances include PSs, CSs, Chief Administrative Secretaries and department heads. Some of the senior officials will be accompanied by staff who are also entitled to an allowance. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content This year’s exam has attracted several state department heads and about 10 Cabinet Secretaries. The entourage includes more than 1,000 special monitors from different departments and ministries. Also in the list are officials from Kenya National Union of Teachers, Secondary Schools Heads association, Private Schools association, Primary School Heads representatives, their Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers counterparts, National Parents association and Special School Heads representatives. ALSO READ:

Tight security in south rift region as exams start Staff from the Teachers Service Commission, sub-county officers and commissioners, divisional police chiefs, education coordinators and directors are also paid. Officials working in urban centres are entitled to between Sh6,300 and Sh18,200. These are areas such as Kisumu, Malindi, Nairobi, Lamu, Mombasa, Naivasha and Kwale. Other areas attract allowances of between Sh4,900 and Sh12,600 or Sh4,200-Sh10,500 for far-flung regions. This batch will include areas such as Lodwar, Kisii, Garissa, Nyeri, Nanyuki, Embu and Kakamega. The budget also includes accommodation fees and flights as officials are needed at the examination centres as early as 6am. From the Sh4.2 billion given to the Kenya National Examinations Council, Sh2 billion is meant for teachers marking the papers and Sh1 billion for centre managers, security, invigilators and supervisors. The rest is set aside for emergency. Kuppet chairman Omboko Milemba previously accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of doing little to tame the officers’ spending, saying the PSs and the CSs are on a spending spree and are not needed at the examination centres. Meanwhile, the Consumer Federation of Kenya questioned government officers’ involvement in the exams. Uhuru, Deputy President William Ruto, Education CS Amina Mohamed and Knec chairman George Magoha are some of the senior government officials who have visited schools at the start of the exams. ALSO READ:

54-year-old man among 5,215 candidates sitting KCPE exams in Nakuru Milemba said such acts only put more pressure on the already-anxious candidates. 