Some 169 foreigners were at the weekend rescued from traffickers in different places in Nairobi. In the first incident, detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) Special Crimes Prevention Unit said the victims who are aged 19 to 45 are currently in custody. ALSO READ:

UK jails gang who turned slavery into 'family business' The first group of 79 was rescued from a house in Mlango Kubwa area, Nairobi. “Detectives acting on information from the public rescued 79 foreigners -75 Comorians, three Ugandans and a Congolese at Mlango Kubwa area within Starehe.” DCI also said that 90 other victims were rescued from different parts of Nairobi. They included 86 Comoros, three Ugandans and a Somali citizen. DCI boss George Kinoti said the smugglers behind the victims trafficking are yet to be arrested. These are the latest foreigners to be nabbed in an ongoing operation that has so far seen more than 2,000 deported. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Refugee government agencies and relief agencies blame poverty in Africa for the increasing cases of trafficking in human beings. They said that the huge supply of labor, both skilled and unskilled, makes them vulnerable to criminal syndicates. Other foreigners include those who are working in the country illegally. ALSO READ:

Facebook, responding to lawsuit, says sex trafficking banned Following the stunning revelations that a number of foreigners used corrupt ways to gain entry into Kenya, the Government has asked foreigners without proper work permits to leave the country or risk facing arrest. Leading nationalities in the cases include Nigerians, Congolese, South Sudanese, Tanzanians and Ethiopians. Some of those so far deported were engaging in jobs that can be done by Kenyans and the government said it had suspended application for foreigners' work permits on arrival in Kenya. Tens of Ethiopians are annually arrested in Kenya while on transit. Most of those arrested come here to seek for jobs or are on transit. Cases of human smuggling have been on the rise in the region with hundreds of young men from Ethiopia finding their way into South Africa through Kenya in search of employment. What is puzzling is how the immigrants manage to evade many police roadblocks mounted from Moyale border where they use to Nairobi. There are more than 20 roadblocks on the stretch. Some officials say the crime happens out of collusion between security agencies and the smugglers.