The family of a 28-year-old police officer who was shot dead by a senior detective in Kiambu last Thursday wants the killing investigated. The Standard Sunday traced the family of Evanson Kipng’etich to Esageri village in Eldama Ravine, Baringo County. ALSO READ:

MCA suffers assault by colleagues over disbandment of county body Family, friends and relatives were yesterday gathered at the home to mourn the officer, who had served for only two years. Thindigua police post, according to family members, was his first posting after he graduated from the police training college. Chief Inspector Duncan Maina of Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) headquarters allegedly shot Kipng’etich near the police post. Police reports indicate that Kipng’etich, who was in the company of another officer, stopped Maina and demanded to have the vehicle he (Maina) was driving checked. The DCI officer was from an assignment in Mombasa and arrived in Thindigua past midnight. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Two officers As he drove along a feeder road, he stumbled on two officers from the local station crossing the road. According to police, Kipng’etich shouted, asking why the occupant was speeding. An exchange ensued and it was then that Kipng’etich was shot. ALSO READ:

Locals up in arms over poor state of new road Maina reported the matter at Thindigua police post and was disarmed. On Friday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet talked about the issue, saying action would be taken. Kipng’etich’s family said it only learnt about the killing of their son through the media. “As a family, we have not heard from anyone from the Government, not even a message of condolence,” said Benson Kiplagat, the family spokesperson. Mr Kiplagat said the family wanted thorough investigation done and the suspect charged. Kipng’etich was the second born in a family of four and was the breadwinner. Before his death, Kipngetich had sent his sister fare as she was finishing his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination. Kiplagat said Kipng’etich had set plans to help build his mother, a single parent, a better house. He said the officer had bought his mother a parcel of land and built her a semi-permanent house. ALSO READ:

Patients get healing in the home of village therapist Yesterday his mother Grace Laboit could not speak. The pain of losing her only son had seen her admitted at a hospital in Eldama Ravine for three days. Caleb Komen, a neighbour, said the community had lost a great friend. Unanswered questions “Lots of questions remain unanswered and we are still waiting for reports from the Government,” said Komen, who described Kipng’etich as a good and kind-hearted man, who the community relied on. Komen said he talked with Kipng’etich at around 8:39pm on the fateful day, only to learn about his death the next day. He said the community would not rest until justice was served. Wycliffe Lagat, another neighbour, said the gap left by Kipng’etich would be a difficult one to fill. He appealed to the Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to intervene. newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke ALSO READ:

It's a shame that bandits can run rings around our security agencies at will