President Uhuru Kenyatta, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto during the memorial service for former Maendeleo ya Wanawake Chair, Jane Kiano at ACK St. Francis Church, Karen, on November 2, 2018. [Photo, Standard] From donating her house near Bomas of Kenya to Jubilee’s “dynamic duo” in 2013 to serving as former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s “shadow MP” in Lang’ata, the late Jane Kiano was a woman of many seasons. ALSO READ:

Raila joins fray a day after Uhuru shocker At her memorial held at St Francis’ ACK Church in Karen, she was celebrated as pioneer woman leader, selfless, compassionate and headstrong. The service was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and Raila. Fresh from a surgical procedure in England, she hopped into the turbulence of the 1988 Mlolongo election to assist her husband clinch an electoral seat. This was revealed by a family friend, Muringo Kiereini. “She gave us her house as we were waiting for the election results. For almost seven days, she gave us free access to her house,” DP Ruto said. Ruto also celebrated her for inspiring generations of Kenyan women leaders through her leadership at Maendeleo ya Wanawake: “She built the biggest ever women organisation in Kenya. At the heart of the city of Nairobi is the Maendeleo House whose construction she championed.” ODM leader Raila Odinga recalled how the woman leader acted as his ‘shadow MP’ during his tenure as the Lang’ata legislator. “She would say that she was in charge when I was out of the country. “We would meet at Carnivore or Karen Blixen (coffee garden) where she would fill me in on what was happening around the constituency,” Raila said. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Uhuru, a close family friend of the Kianos celebrated her selfless service to Kenyans over the years. “We remember her for the many great things that she did for this country. She did without expecting anything in return. She did it because it was right and just to do so. She fought the fight for women not because of wealth but because it was the right thing to do,” the President said. He promised that women who have made significant contributions in the country will be recognised. ALSO READ:

Anecdotes as leaders pay tribute to Kiano From the tributes offered, she pushed things down her way and made unique decisions, they said. One mourner recalled how she scorned at an attempt to award her an honorary degree saying she would rather earn it like her late husband Dr Julius Kiano. Dr Kiano was the country’s first PhD holder in pre-independence days. He served in cabinet of founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. 