Travel in our public service vehicles (PSV) is a gamble. From utter disregard for traffic rules, poorly maintained vehicles to bad roads, arriving safely at ones destination from another point cannot be taken lightly. Kenya ranks highly among countries having some of the worst killer roads in the world, and the Salgaa stretch on the Nakuru – Eldoret Road is ample attestation. In one of the latest accidents, at least 59 people perished in an accident at Fort Ternan, Kericho County in early October. Though the cause of the grisly accident has not been clearly established, reports indicated the bus operated outside regulatory hours without a valid license and was overloaded. In itself, that was a violation of what has come to be popularly known as the Michuki rules. ALSO READ:

PSV and Tottenham draw in thrilling Champions League encounter Alarmed at the level of carnage on our roads in 2003, the then Minister for Transport John Michuki introduced stringent rules that aimed at restoring sanity on our roads. Key among the rules was the requirement that all public service vehicles not only carry the specified capacity of passengers, each PSV had to be fitted with safety belts. Additionally, it became mandatory for drivers and touts to wear uniforms and, at all times, carry badges provided by NTSA. The driver’s photograph had to be displayed prominently in every public service vehicle. The initial resistance to these rules was crashed by Michuki’s resolute approach to the matter of safety. For some time following the enaction of these rules, there was a noticeable reduction in road accidents. Unfortunately, when Michuki left the ministry of Transport following a cabinet reshuffle, his successors were not keen on the rules, and they were ignored. While this addresses the need to build strong institutions that eclipse the individual in charge, there has been a lack of political goodwill. The establishment of the National Transport and Safety Authority did not achieve the desired goals as its staff got entangled in the web of corruption that has, over time, defined the police traffic department. Unless serious intent is demonstrated to contain the spectre of rising road accidents, it is unlikely that the latest attempt at enforcing the Michuki rules will inspire much confidence. That is because the need for tough rules becomes apparent to those in charge only after accidents. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Vehicle owners, on the other hand, must show respect for human life by following regulations and keeping their vehicles in good shape.