Simon Munzu, a former UN official, who is campaigning for peace in the Anglophone regions of Cameroon, shows a threat message posted against him on social media by separatists during an interview with Reuters in Yaounde, Cameroon October 3, 2018. Picture taken October 3, 2018. [REUTERS/Zohra Bensemra] A video link posted on Facebook on June 20 showed a man cooking human body parts in a pot over a wood fire. ALSO READ:

Tech giants should be investigated says Sir Berners-Lee In Cameroon, the footage went viral. Some Facebook users said the man was a cannibal and that the video was shot in the country’s English-speaking west, where separatist insurgents are fighting to create a breakaway state. Local websites quickly debunked this notion. The man in the video was not a separatist fighter or cannibal, and the body parts were not real. The clip was taken on a Nigerian film set and uploaded to Instagram on June 17 by make-up artist Hakeem Onilogbo, who uses the platform to showcase his work. But the video’s rapid spread raises questions about Facebook’s ability to police millions of posts each day and crack down on hate speech in a country where internet use is rising fast, social media are used for political ends and the company has no permanent physical presence. The day the link was posted on Facebook, a member of the government brought the video to the attention of international diplomats in the capital, Yaounde, via the WhatsApp messaging service, according to messages seen by Reuters. Five days later, Cameroon’s minister for territorial administration cited it as justification for an army clampdown against the secessionists that was already under way in the Anglophone regions. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content The minister, Paul Atanga Nji, compared the rebellion — over decades of perceived marginalisation by the French-speaking majority — to an Islamist insurgency waged by the Nigeria-based militant group Boko Haram which has killed 30,000 people. “Boko Haram committed atrocities, but they did not cut up humans and cook them in pots,” the minister said in comments broadcast on state television and widely reported in Cameroon. Nji did not respond to requests for comment. Government spokesman Issa Tchiroma Bakary said that in future the government would work to verify information before commenting. ALSO READ:

Suspected Boko Haram militants kill 15 in northeast Nigeria Facebook said the video had not been reported by users and that it could not comment further on the clip. It was no longer available on the site by late October. A senior Facebook official said tackling misinformation in Cameroon was a priority for the company, which acknowledges more needs to be done. “We’re prioritizing countries where we’ve already seen how quickly online rumors can fuel violence, such as Myanmar and Cameroon,” said Ebele Okobi, Director of Africa Public Policy at Facebook. UNDER FIRE Facebook is under fire for carrying misleading information, including in the United States and Britain, and over posts against the Muslim Rohingya minority in Myanmar which have had deadly consequences. Sri Lankan authorities briefly banned Facebook this year because the government said it was fueling violence between Buddhists and Muslims. In India, messages on Facebook-owned WhatsApp have been linked to attacks on religious minorities. In Cameroon, Facebook has been used both to incite violence and to make threatening posts. ALSO READ:

Facebooks tool for preventing damaging ads not functional Simon Munzu, a former United Nations representative, said he was the target of death threats on Facebook after it was announced in July that he would help organize negotiations in the separatist conflict. Afraid, Munzu went to stay with friends. Facebook removed the posts in October, after it was made aware of them by Reuters, saying they violated company standards. Esther Omam, who runs a non-governmental organization (NGO) called Reach Out, hid at a church and then fled to the Francophone region after receiving death threats from separatists following a peace march which she led, she told Reuters. “The crisis has destroyed my life and my family,” she said. “I cannot work anymore. My family is divided. My husband is elsewhere, my children are elsewhere.” Facebook has no staff operating permanently in Cameroon and says it monitors the country from Britain and the United States. It has an Africa-focused team that frequently visits the region, and has partnered with NGOs and civil society in Cameroon in recent months to combat hate speech.  