A senior Homa Bay County official has committed suicide over alleged financial problems. Thadayo Nyakwaka, the head of laboratory department at Rangwe Sub County hospital allegedly killed himself at his home within Lower Kayambo location in Ndhiwa Sub County. ALSO READ:

Driver: I didn't know my passenger was ferrying drugs Nyakwaka allegedly committed suicide by drowning in a well at his home compound on Saturday. According to Lower Kayambo Chief Cyprian Obonyo, Nyakwaka who is said to be a staunch Seventh Day Adventist died after his first attempt failed. “He had attempted to plunge himself inside a pit latrine but the latrine had no water. His sister followed him and got him out of the pit,” said Obonyo. Upon removal from the pit, his tempers cooled down. But a few minutes later, he got out of the house and ran into the well where he threw himself. “His sister raised an alarm seeking for help but he was already overwhelmed by water. He died instantly,” Obonyo added. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content A few days earlier, Nyakwaka had hinted to a friend that he would commit suicide. One of his friends intervened by discouraging him from consuming drugs he had bought. “I interacted with his friend who narrated to me how he convinced Nyakwaka to stop poisoning himself. He was arguing that he had financial problems,” the Chief added. Nyakwaka’s death raised many questions among his colleagues who argued that his death resulted from poor conditions of work which climaxed to a health workers’ strike last week. ALSO READ:

Body of girl, 4, found dumped in maize plantation According to the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union Executive Secretary Ben Otieno, the medic was frustrated with how the county government was handling their salary plight. “He died when he received information that legal action would be taken on striking heath workers yet his salary had been delayed,” he said. Ndhiwa OCPD Dishon Chadaka said they were conducting investigations into the medic’s death. The body was taken to Homa Bay County Referral Hospital mortuary.