Deputy President William Ruto has asked MPs to pass the two thirds gender rule set to be tabled in the National Assembly on Tuesday. Mr Ruto said the Bill will bring to an end the gender imbalance in management of state affairs. ALSO READ:

Fresh bid to have more women in Parliament Speaking yesterday at Chepsaita village, Uasin Gishu County, during the burial of Mzee Paul Teigut, the DP said the Bill will ensure Kenyan women take their rightful position in government positions. Mzee Teigut is the father of Ruto's longtime aide Farouk Kibet. The Bill is sponsored by Leader of Majority in the National Assembly Aden Duale. “I am telling the 12th Parliament that you have a moment of history to demonstrate that Kenya will not be the same again. We have the moment to pass the two thirds gender Bill,” said Mr Ruto. “To Jubilee Party MPs, I urge you to stand on the side of this historic moment, and to male MPs, you should be the last to stand on the way of our mothers and daughters.” Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Mr Duale and Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen said senators will support the Bill when it comes up for debate and approval. The DP steered clear of 2022 succession politics, but several MPs and governors who attended the ceremony drummed up support for Ruto, saying he is better placed to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu assured Ruto of Mt Kenya support. “You have the support of a majority of residents from the Mt Kenya region. Those who are introducing the ICC cases are scheming to lock you out but you have the support of a majority of Kenyans,” said Waititu. ALSO READ:

Land row hurts Sh24bn Kiambu dam project Former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto said Kenyans should enjoy the democratic space. “Let us accept defeat after an election and build nationhood. Am told you have maize problems here but I can’t talk about it because we no longer grow it in Bomet,” the ex-governor said.