Deputy President William Ruto says Kenya has moved on from the 2017 hotly contested elections and development is the main agenda for all leaders. Ruto said Kenya will not have any meaningful progress with constant political bickering and hatred. Speaking in Kisii yesterday, Ruto said the government will not take chances in its bid to implement all pledges made during the 2017 campaigns. ALSO READ:

Pass two thirds gender rule, DP urges MPs “I am ready to work with Gusii leadership. We will not entertain rhetoric that continues to affect our development agenda. Time has come for us to put aside our differences and work towards one direction. There is no room for tribal politics,” he said. The DP warned road contractors in the area that the government will not allow laziness and petty excuses in completion of road projects. He said the government was concluding compensation plans to construct the Sh6 billion dam at Bonyunyu in Nyamira County. Rolled out Ruto asked Kisii Governor James Ongwae, who was present, to set aside land for the housing programme being rolled out by the national government. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. “More than 25,000 young people will have an opportunity to work in Kisii County. All those unemployed youths will no longer be idling,” he said. The DP applauded the working relationship between the national and Kisii County governments, saying equipment for Rirabu Technical Training Institute in Marani was ready for collection. Although he steered clear of the 2022 politics, MPs present led by National Assembly Leader of Majority Adan Duale said the DP was the right person to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Ruto has in the last 30 days made visits to four constituencies in Gusii region where he has commissioned technical institutes, roads and presided over fundraisers. ALSO READ:

Uhuru: Looters of NYS cash will pay the price His trips to the region continue to raise eyebrows. Last weekend, he attended a fundsdrive at Nyabururu Parish with all the nine Kisii County MPs and Deputy Governor Joash Maangi in attendance. West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi was also in attendance.