 Butere residents stormed a police station to protest against the killing of yet another person in the area. ALSO READ:

Young leaders should remain 'leaders of tomorrow' Led by area MP Tindi Mwale and former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale, they marched to the Butere Police Station on Friday to protest at police failure to rein in the gang, said to be the notorious 42 Brothers. Locals said at least 14 people have been killed by the gang, but police claimed only seven had fallen victim to the criminals. Another 40 people are nursing panga cuts and other serious injuries after being attacked by the gang members. The gangsters, said to be aged between 15 and 25, usually cut out their victims' tongues, hack off genitals and gouge out eyes. Samuel Misiko Ndubi, 31, the gang's latest victim, was killed at Bubala on Friday at 2am and his body dumped in the middle of the Sabatia-Butere road. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content According to John Osotsi, Misiko's buttocks had been slashed, his head split into two and his legs crushed. "His eyes had been gouged out and his throat slit. Majority of those killed by 42 Brothers have have their throats slit and eyes removed. We don't know why they slit their throats," said Mr Osotsi. Some of the attackers were said to be students from three primary schools and two secondary schools in the sub-county, while others were recent school dropouts. ALSO READ:

The bull fighter is gone! The residents also protested against the killing of a mechanic allegedly by a police officer. Zacharia Angatia was shot by a police officer last week around 8pm on Tuesday. Witnesses claimed a police officer shot Mr Angatia as he fixed a client’s car at a garage. He died on the spot. The motive of the shooting has not been established. A postmortem will be conducted on his body at St Mary's Hospital Mumias today. Dr Khalwale said he wondered why the police officer accused of shooting dead Angatia had not been disarmed. He said the officer had been seen in riot gear and armed with an AK-47 rifle repulsing the protesters. “The officer has been on duty harassing us and yet we were holding peaceful demonstrations. We don't know why the officer is still at his working station," said Khalwale. Cash cow ALSO READ:

Khalwale now says 'Ruto tosha' Khalwale said the security team in Butere could not address the prevailing insecurity as they had "turned the crisis into a cash cow". Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who hails from Butere, said he was even afraid to go home as he had no faith in the local security apparatus. He claimed some officers supported the gang. "Police are telling us we don't have 42 Brothers but organised criminal gangs. How come they are not arresting them?" asked Oparanya. Western Regional Police Commander Julius Kitili said, "There is no need to worry as security apparatus are on high alert." Security officers from the county are scheduled to have a crisis security meeting today. Local leaders are expected.