Police and Prisons Service officers have up to the end of the year to vacate the free State-leased houses and start living in their own rented houses. This is according to a November 12 circular from the office of Director of Logistics Julius Sunkuli sent to all top police bosses. ALSO READ:

Mortgage firm positions in Big Four plan The officers, according the circular, will now have to cater for their house rents, electricity bills and any other services that maybe rendered to them from time to time. This is in relation to the implementation of the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta in September to cancel leases for houses for junior police, who will now get house allowances. “The policy of free housing for junior officers is hereby abolished and instead house allowance for all ranks of these officers will be provided,” said the President at the Kenya School of Government, where he also announced the merger of Administration Police (AP) and Kenya Police. Directive The directive is expected to save the Government up to Sh3 billion spent on electricity, water and other bills, and more than Sh1 billion on leasing houses annually. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content To adequately prepare these officers to live in their own premises and pay for all utilities, their bosses are required to immediately notify them that the effective date of the newly introduced allowances is December 1, 2018. “That they will start paying for their individual economic/market rate rents with effect from February 1, 2019 .That those officers who currently live in Government leased houses will either vacate by January 31, 2019 or enter into individual contracts with landlords at a rate agreed between the two as any other tenants in the market,” said the circular. House allowances for police constables in Nairobi County will be paid at Sh18,124 per month, while those in Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Meru and Uasin Gishu will earn Sh13,124. ALSO READ:

Two Rivers eyes smart city status with over 10,000 residences