The city of Chicago lost a doctor, a pharmaceutical assistant and a police officer [Courtesy] An argument in a hospital parking lot escalated into a shooting that killed three people, including a police officer, in the US city of Chicago on Monday. ALSO READ:

Tractor maker eyes Africa’s agri-revolution The violence only ended when police engaged in a shootout with the gunman inside Mercy Hospital. "We have four deceased individuals: police officer, two female staff employees at the hospital, and the offender," police Superintendent Eddie Johnson told journalists. The shooter killed the first victim -- a woman who was in a "domestic relationship" with him -- during an argument in the parking lot, then fired at police when they got to the hospital, and ran inside, Johnson said. Additional police -- including SWAT officers -- arrived at the scene, and "engaged the offender for several minutes in the hospital, with gunshots being fired by the offender and by the police," he said. During the shootout, the gunman killed a second woman when she got off an elevator, Johnson said. The shooter also fatally wounded, but it was unclear if he killed himself or was killed by police. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Mayor Rahm Emanuel identified the two female victims as a doctor and a "pharmaceutical assistant." Patients described being alarmed by the sound of gunshots outside Mercy Hospital and seeing a man apparently walking with a woman in the parking lot before shooting her three times in the chest. "Once she fell to the ground, he stood over her and shot her three more times," bystander James Gray told reporters, adding that the attack played out "like a movie scene." ALSO READ:

Catholic bishops apologise for child sex abuse by priests TV footage showed terrified patients and staff filing out of the hospital into a parking lot with their hands in the air after officers flooded the area. - 'Scared as hell' - Patient Hector Avitia told the local CBS television affiliate he was with his wife waiting for test results when he saw a gunman dressed in black fire on someone on the ground several times in the parking lot. "Then almost immediately, an officer was already coming in an SUV, and (the assailant) exchanged fire at them and then reloaded and shot the person on the ground again," another witness said. "And then he made his way into the hospital and more shots were fired." The shooting followed a series of recent high-profile gun rampages that have fueled calls for reform of firearms regulations in a country plagued by gun violence. Less than two weeks earlier, a gunman killed 12 people in a California music bar packed with college students. ALSO READ:

Did KQ bosses get US route flight strategy wrong? That came after the worst anti-Semitic attack in modern US history, when a gunman opened fire on congregants at a synagogue in the US city of Pittsburgh on October 27.