Cases of ‘misplaced’ support are rare in Mt Kenya region. But in the last election, the region’s top command threw their weight behind Mike Sonko against their own – Margaret Wanjiru or Dennis Waweru. Sonko was obviously a bigger name in politics and with his pact with Polycarp Igathe, the Mt Kenya looked safe. The political wedding was glorious, ending up in kicking out Evans Kidero and bringing in the flamboyant Mike Sonko. But immediately after taking over Sonko had to trim the Mt Kenya influence at City Hall. ALSO READ:

Governor Mike Sonko airlifts Conjestina Achieng to Nairobi for treatment That is perhaps why he had to force out his deputy Polycarp Igathe. In his resignation, Igathe stated that there was no trust between the two before Sonko released audio recordings between him and the deputy. Sonko then turned his firing machine on chief of staff Mugo Kamau. Soon he was caught up in a verbal and ego fight with Interior PS Karanja Kibichu. Recently, Sonko released a video of his conversation with Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu where he talks about how he saved the governor. Waititu and Sonko have a long history in Nairobi. They rose together. You would think this would call for some respect but Sonko went ahead, arrested his fellow governor’s wife, recorded the comical calls and released them on social media. At the same time Mike Sonko picked an ugly fight with Murang’a Governor Mwangi Wa Iria, accusing him of killing KCC. Sonko was reacting to a justified revenue sharing proposal by his Murang’a counterpart. The matter was escalated by the fact that a City Hall official leaked the plans to move all bus termini for PSVs from Central Kenya to out of the Central Business District. One of his aides was quoted saying all hawkers would be ejected from the city since they are not Nairobians as they come from Central Kenya. The epitome of his psychological war with the Mt Kenya political fabric was when he nominated political activist Miguna Miguna as Nairobi Deputy Governor. Miguna has been considered for disrespectful to the Jubilee leadership, including the president. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Waiting game Perhaps Sonko doesn’t want to have a deputy from Central Kenya and may take as much time as possible before naming one. If he yields to have one from Central Kenya, he will most likely name a weakling who he can puppet and control. Clearly, Mt Kenya is losing its grip on Nairobi politics. Sonko has won all duels against many Mt Kenya politicians. He is definitely cementing his legacy as a self-made Nairobi Politician who doesn’t require political godfathers. ALSO READ:

Sonko: Win World Cup and Sh5m is yours Mt Kenya business people have invested heavily in Nairobi and have been very keen on how the capital is run. Recent events show that their influence will be diluted by the new Sheriff in Town. It’s Mike Sonko’s time, you know. Mike Sonko has also made power moves in the larger Ukambani counties, believing that his ability to conquer the Nairobi seat makes him better placed to displace Kalonzo Musyoka as the political heavy weight in Ukambani region. Sonko believes the former VP and NASA co-principal has failed to secure development and a common political direction for the people of Ukambani. Sonko believes his wealth, age and influence among the youth elevates him to the most influential politician after Uhuru, Raila and Ruto. This puts him squarely as a favourite to be Wiliiam Ruto’s running mate. From his body language, Sonko is firmly against a Mt Kenya running mate for Jubilee come 2022. He advocates for regional balance. Sonko must be burning the mid night oil strategizing an assault to the executive and he will have a campaign chest of billions of shillings. He knows he represents the future and can’t be arm twisted by Mt Kenya mafia. We are witnessing the rise of a Kamba bare knuckle political king pin who doesn’t beg for approval. Sonko is his own person; Nairobi’s top guy who does things his way. James Omolo is a political commentator based in Nairobi. ALSO READ:

Governor Sonko directs all noisy bar closed till end of KCPE,KCSE