Twelve contractors have sued the county government over Sh54 million in unpaid bills. The contractors claim the government hired them to build roads during the 2014/15 financial year but did not pay them. In a suit filed at the High Court, the companies claim they undertook road works in the 30 wards. They told court they were contracted, through the Office of County Secretary and the executive for land and infrastructure, to supply murram and gravel. “Execution of the work, in most cases, was carried out on emergency basis at orders or request by the defendant or its designated officers,” the contractors said. They said some of the works included preparation of roads during the burial of victims of terror attacks. They also renovated roads ahead of visits by senior national and county government officials. The plaintiffs told court they were only required to provide filled up quotations to earn the contracts after which they would get down to work immediately. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 "We undertook the work on earmarked roads, which involved gravelling, among others, as per the defendants specifications and instructions,” the companies said through lawyer Samuel Ndung’u. They said they used their resources to undertake the construction works. The county government, the companies said, later formed a task-force to audit their work and later invited contractors to present claims for payment. “The task-force eventually compiled a report which confirmed that work was undertaken accordingly and recommended payment," the said. The government, through lawyer Richard Kamotho, denied refusing to pay the contractors and termed claims of emergency works as untrue. "The county government has always adhered to the law in its award of contracts to prevent loss of public funds,” he said. “They claim to have undertaken the works yet none has provided proof of contracts signed,” said an affidavit filed by a Mr Julius Ringera.