 Thirteen counties have been advised to expedite the process of taking over the ownership of water service boards in their jurisdictions. ALSO READ:

How drones helped ‘save’ power project Council of Governors Chairman Josphat Nanok (pictured) said counties should be prepared to take over the water service providers (WSPs) once a law on asset transfer was effected by June next year. “Counties yet to fully own WSPs should be supported accordingly as they are agents of county governments. This will ensure effective water and sanitation delivery services,” said Mr Nanok yesterday. The Turkana governor was addressing a caucus of county executive committee members who had met to deliberate on water issues and emerging challenges in managing the resource. The chairman said the national government should consult governors and obtain clearance when investing in water utilities. “As governors we would also want to see all programmes, projects and investments by the national government through the water utilities get a 'no objection letter' from the counties." Mr Nanok said the council is committed to protecting the gains achieved in the water sector after the reforms instituted in 2002. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content “The council will endeavour to ensure that the WSPs remain commercially viable through ring-fencing of revenues and that the tenets of good corporate governance are upheld in the sector.” Governors have faced criticism from players in the water sector who have accused them of impeding the autonomy that water companies enjoy and rolling back the gains accrued following the enactment of the Water Act of 2002. There has been acrimony in Murang’a, Kiambu and Kajiado counties over shared water resources. This prompted a meeting on October 28 to debate ownership and management of water utilities. ALSO READ:

Fed up, women take up fight on cattle rustlers The meeting, attended by governors, Water and Sanitation Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui, his Devolution colleague, Eugene Wamalwa, and county water executives, agreed that according to the Water Act, 2016, WSPs were agents of county governments. Water executives On the wrangles about the ownership of the Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company, the Murang'a South Water and Sanitation Company and three other utilities (Gatanga, Gathamati and Kahuthu), it was agreed that the institutions be handed over to Murang’a County government. Murang’a is one of the 13 counties yet to sign agreements with the WSPs transferring their ownership. The others are Kilifi, Lamu, Garissa, Tharaka Nithi, Kitui, Machakos, Makueni, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Turkana, West Pokot and Vihiga. 