A 22-year-old student from Meru National Polytechnic is the new winner of the fourth Radio Maisha Saka Chapaa promotion. Kenneth Marangu, a First Year Agriculture student who comes from a humble background won Sh100,000 and said he would use some of the money to pay his tuition fees. ALSO READ:

Standard Media Group empowers high-performing culture with SAP technology Mr Marangu, a keen listener of Radio Maishawhich is owned by the Standard Media Group, said he had been trying his luck since Monday after the station’s announcement that the promotion would be in Meru. Golden envelope “I thank God for enabling me trace the golden envelope and win. Since the promotion was announced l had been on the look out to try my luck,” said Marangu. “I am so delighted because l will be able to pay my school fees and help my mother pay fees required for her to be issued with a title deed. The money will also cater for some of my five siblings’ needs,” he added. The winner is counting blessings not for the first time; recently he won a scholarship from the Meru Youth Service (MYS) programme where 600 youth were sponsored to pursue technical skills courses. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Marangu said after he is through with the six-month certificate programme he will use the money he won yesterday to enroll for a diploma course. “After completing my secondary education in 2016 l had no money to enroll into a tertiary institution; luckily, l was selected by Governor Kiraitu Murungi’s administration to train under the MYS. Today, l get another opportunity to thank God for after winning the Radio Maisha promotion,” said Marangu, who is a third born child. ALSO READ:

Kenyans raise money through Radio Maisha for gifted 10-year-old boy from Kisii Radio Maisha Programmes Controller, Lynda Oriaso while congratulating the winner noted that the aim of the promotion is to award and empower listeners. “This is a three solid month’s promotion targeting our fans,” she said. The next promotion will in Kisumu. Today fans in Meru will be entertained at Club Blend in Meru town where they will interact with the radio station’s presenters.