Officers were yesterday caught on camera transporting, in a police vehicle, desperate commuters stranded following a crackdown on traffic law offenders. They charged Sh400, instead of the usual Sh200 charged by public service vehicle operators on the same stretch in normal circumstances. ALSO READ:

Matatu operators apologise to suffering commuters Some in uniform The officers, some in uniform, were seen picking passengers from Marigat bus station. A team of The Standard reporters, acting on a tip off from agitated matatu operators, went to the said stage and found passengers boarding the vehicle, a Land Cruiser with registration number GKB 689. One of the beneficiaries of the ride, a woman who requested anonymity for fear of being victimised, said the officers told them they were headed to Nakuru town for an assignment and would like to ‘help’ willing passengers at the Sh400 fee. The woman, who was travelling with her son, said they were relieved because public transport had been unavailable for hours. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The vehicle, she said, picked more than 10 passengers, including children. She said majority of passengers were desperate, and hence did not question the officers' actions. “We did not have an issue boarding the vehicle. In fact, we were happy because all we wanted was to get to our destination,” she added. The Standard trailed the vehicle from Mogotio at the border of Baringo and Nakuru County and established that it was carrying more than 10 passengers, some with pieces of luggage. ALSO READ:

Candidates to be ferried by school buses amid crisis First to be dropped The first point to drop passengers along the Marigat Nakuru road was at London estate in the outskirts of Nakuru town. More passengers alighted at Kenya Farmers Association within Nakuru town while the last lot got off the Government vehicle at Seguton, on Kenyatta Avenue, before it made a turn. When contacted, Rift Valley Regional Police Commander Francis Munyambu said it was wrong for officers to take advantage of the crackdown to ferry civilian passengers. “Police vehicles are meant for official duties and not for conducting transport business. We are investigating the matter and action will be taken against officers involved,” said Mr Munyambu.