The Kenya Ports Authority Ag. MD Dr. Arch. Daniel Manduku receives the winning trophy of the best large trade stand won by the Authority during the official opening of Nairobi International Trade fair. He is joined by KPA Director Mr. Valentine Mwakamba holding the certificate awarded by H.E President Uhuru Kenyatta. [File, Standard] Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) acting MD Daniel Manduku will have to fight it out for the plum job in a competitive process carried out by a private human resource firm. ALSO READ:

Facebook to invest in hardware, AR glasses KPA board of directors, under Chairman Joseph Kibwana, yesterday invited applicants for the position in the dailies where Dr Manduku will be vying for the job for the second time. In the notice, applications for the MD’s job are expected to reach Deloitte Consulting by not later than November 16. “The authority is seeking to recruit an individual with a high degree of integrity and professionalism, impeccable administrative capabilities and strategic orientation to fill the position of managing director,” said the notice. Yesterday, political leaders and Dock Workers Union (DWU) called for a fair recruitment to ensure KPA gets a substantive chief executive. Jomvu legislator Badi Twalib called for Manduku’s direct appointment claiming he has had an impressive track record after solving port congestion and workers’ issues. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. Good performance “He came to the port when there was congestion, loss of containers and heavy traffic jams on Mombasa roads. I believe it is his leadership that has tackled these problems and I humbly request for his confirmation on the basis of his track record,” Twalib argued. DWU General Secretary Simon Sang supports Manduku and credited him with  raising port performance, including offtake of cargo by the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and achieving the shortest negotiation of a Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) where the lowest paid workers clinched 16 per cent pay rise and the highest paid 10 per cent. ALSO READ:

Poor Ivory Coast pupils get solar backpacks “It is a legal requirement to advertise the position and conduct a competitive recruitment for compliance with the law and to get the best candidate. But as a union, we prefer a confirmation of Manduku because of his achievements so far,” said Sang. Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi said recruitment should be based on merit. Manduku’s term had been extended by four months from August 1 to November 30 after he replaced Catherine Mturi-Wairi on May 30. Until his appointment, Manduku was Director General of the National Construction Authority (NCA). However, a dispute over who should recruit the new MD may complicate matters. Kibwana wants the recruitment done by a private human resource firm while others want the hiring done by the board.