Delbit Petroleum has been awarded with the leading oil importer taxpayer trophy at the Kenya Revenue Authority Ramji Haribhai Devani and Brain Field Oil and Gas Limited received Medium and Small taxpayer awards The oil company recently won a contract valued at about $6.8 million (Sh687.31million) to fuel United Nations planes in Uganda and DRC Delbit Petroleum has been awarded with the leading oil importer taxpayer trophy at the Kenya Revenue Authority. The awards presided over by President Uhuru Kenyatta, also recognized Ramji Haribhai Devani and Brain Field Oil and Gas Limited with Medium and Small taxpayer awards. ALSO READ:

Uhuru now goes after property owners in tax war The oil company a subsidiary of Janus Continental Group (JCG) is a major energy player in Kenya, Zambia, Tanzania, Uganda, South Sudan, DR Congo and the UK among others. Dalbit Petroleum chief officer Supply Chain, Esther Ngero, said the award confirms that the oil company was serious about paying its taxes to enhance Kenya's economic and social development. She attributed the award to the company's efforts to provide world-class services. Ngero said: "At Dalbit Petroleum, we are excited to receive this award which serves to renew our obligation to maintaining world-class standards in all our business fronts. The award is also a tribute to our hardworking workforce which is dedicated to fueling regional growth and Kenya's Big Four agenda." The oil company associated with billionaire Humphrey Kariuki recently won a contract valued at about $6.8 million (Sh687.31million) to fuel United Nations planes in Uganda and DRC – Guru and Goma respectively. Other concerns associated with Mr Kariuki and Janus include The Hub in Karen (shopping mall, Africa Spirits and Great Lakes Africa Energy, a U.K-based company that is a developer and operator of power projects in Southern Africa. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. Kariuki also associated with the 5-star Fairmont Mount Kenya Safari Club, and the neighboring Mount Kenya Wildlife Conservancy and Animal Orphanage. Dalbit Petroleum was crowned with the overall trophy in the traditionally hotly contested market category featuring leading oil importers and marketers. ? ALSO READ:

Harness more renewable energy to reduce cost of power in Kenya