 What does your office washroom say about your organisation? ALSO READ:

From Koroga to Koroga: We can learn from hustlers Many washrooms I have visited do not reflect the ethos of the respective organisation. Mops, brooms and buckets are often carelessly tacked behind doors. It pays to take care of the washroom because it is the first place your clients get to peep into your organisation’s inner world. A clean meticulous office washroom says several things about your organisation: That as an organisation, you pay attention to details, you are good managers and you can be trusted to prioritise care for your clients. It is all too easy to pay attention to the obvious public areas such as reception, meeting rooms and customer care lounges as they are revenue generating but neglect the perceived non-revenue generating washrooms. Yet, especially, for retail outlet such as supermarkets, food, beauty and health shops; uncared washrooms could actually make you lose your customers. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content A messy wash room gives the impression that your organisation is careless. Pay particular attention to hygiene levels in the washroom by installing professional hygiene management equipment. For a harmonised appearance, co-ordinate the dispensers which come in various styles and colours. Cleaning products with dual function should be used for deodorising as they sanitise. ALSO READ:

7 businesses that defy a downturn Hand drying equipment Select hand drying techniques that minimise the spread of germs. European Tissue Symposium emphasises the importance of proper hand drying techniques alongside to complete a hygienic hand washing process and minimise the spread of infection. Their research found that bacterial contamination in the washroom was higher in washrooms using jet air dryers to dry hands. The more powerful the air flow, the greater the dispersion of germ around the space in the washroom. Raj Bains of Kim-Fay East Africa, suppliers of hand-hygiene and washroom solutions recommends drying one’s hands with a paper towel as the method transfers the contamination onto the paper towel and to the bin where they are dispensed. “Washrooms equipped with single use paper towels for hand drying have significantly less bacterial contaminations especially if the used towels are kept in a lidded bin,” he says. Add little thoughtful items that show that your organisation cares about its staff and clients. Washroom signage on the corridors and doors, mirrors in the washrooms, hand lotion, changing areas for mothers and their babies - especially in malls. ALSO READ:

How to make your own brand of flour Keep your washroom clean and professional and it will be indirectly speaking to your customers that “we’d love to see you again”.