Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi Saturday renewed calls for Coast unity as they declared their terms for the anticipated referendum. Historical injustices and sharing of resources between local and national governments top the list of the things they want corrected by the referendum. ALSO READ:

Youths demand change in church over archaic rules Both also renewed calls for strengthening of the Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani (JKP) socio-economic integration bloc, with Kingi warning that leaders’ disunity was threatening its survival. Joho described JKP as a vital tool for regional revival that must be strengthened. Whereas Kingi declared conditional support, insisting Coast residents should only back the referendum if the questions framed address their needs, Joho said residents should enthusiastically address their issues to the Building Bridges Iniatiative committee when it visits Malindi and Mombasa tomorrow and on Wednesday. Historical land injustices Kingi said the most important issues bedeviling Coast are historical land injustices and disunity among leaders. The Kilifi governor said he will only support constitutional changes if they address these issues. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He said disunity is threatening all initiatives to integrate Coast economically, politically and socially and working against anyone from the region who wants to be president. Addressing a JKP forum yesterday, Joho said “everybody wants the referendum and there is no going back”. He said Coast residents have a historical opportunity to discuss desired changes with the committee, including wealth sharing between the county and national governments regarding such resources as the Port of Mombasa and Coast’s mineral wealth. ALSO READ:

Young leaders should remain 'leaders of tomorrow' Meanwhile, Kingi wants MPs who have openly declared their support for Deputy President William Ruto’s  presidency against the ODM’s orders forgiven. He said Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori should be forgiven in the interest of forging unity in the region. “I will help those who slipped to come back to the fold but if they do not do so then you call for their removal,” said Kingi. Opinion leaders The governor said for now they had agreed that the leaders must forge unity among themselves in the region and also unite the locals. Kingi was addressing opinion leaders from Coast region in Mombasa yesterday. They included MPs, senators, MCAs and religious leaders from 152 wards in Mombasa, Kilifi, Tana River, Kwale, Taita Taveta and Lamu counties. Among those who attended the meeting were Kwale Senator Issa Juma Boy, his Kilifi counterpart Stewart Madzayo and eight local MPs. ALSO READ:

Has Uhuru Kenyatta betrayed Rift Valley? The governor was reacting to calls by some MCAs from Kwale who asked ODM to complete the process of removing Jumwa and Dori from the party so that by-elections can be held. Joho also called on regional leaders to stop quarrelling among themselves and instead forge unity for future political and economical gains. The leaders, who endorsed Joho and Kingi as their recognised leaders in the region, urged the local residents not to shy away from seeking to be elected as president. Joho asked the locals to be ready and give ideas on what they want to be addressed in the constitution during the referendum. “We want the Building Bridges Initiative committee to take the views which will help us have a good constitution,” said Joho.