 returns to Western two weeks after he marked Mashujaa Day at Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega town. ALSO READ:

Anecdotes as leaders pay tribute to Kiano Ruto will preside over a fundraiser for churches in Malava constituency tomorrow. MP Malulu Injendi (Jubilee) said everything is set for the big event at Malava Primary School. From Malava, the DP will proceed to Mumias East constituency for another funds drive in aid of boda boda riders. Ruto’s Personal Assistant Farouk Kibet had earlier indicated that his boss would visit Kakamega in person to ask locals to back his 2022 presidential bid. Mr Kibet dropped the hint during a funds drive he presided recently at Sirungai Girls Secondary School in Malava. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. It will be the first time Ruto will be returning to the region since Opposition chief Raila Odinga was named African Union (AU) special envoy. Politicians allied to the DP have been piling pressure on Raila to exit the local political scene and concentrate on his new regional mandate. Raila is seen as Ruto’s main challenger for the presidency in 2022. Ruto will walk shoulder high to Western buoyed by recent remarks by the President Uhuru that he would back his Deputy as earlier agreed. ALSO READ:

We are not princes — Raila Odinga Uhuru was under intense pressure to disclose his position about the 2022 succession battle from Rift Valley politicians. Political commentator Martin Andati believes Ruto is busy doing leg work in Western to endear himself to the Luhya community. “He is busy making inroads with a focus on getting a share of Western bloc votes,” said Andati. He argues that Raila accepted the AU role in order to re-engineer himself, create networks and mobilise resources to mount a robust campaign machinery that could guarantee him victory. “The special envoy position gives Raila opportunity to engage both China and the West both of whom have huge interests in Africa. He holds a very influential docket,” he said. Raila has an upper hand in terms of political support in Western and other parts of the country compared to Ruto, he said. “It means, he (Raila) will get a lion’s share of votes in Western but Ruto could walk away with a significant fraction, may be 40 per cent in case he manages to stick with Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and Dr Khalwale,” observed Andati. He believes Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi could be rendered irrelevant if he fails to read the writings on the wall and join either of the two camps. “He would be forced to join Raila or Ruto since 2022 succession politics is fast shaping up into a two-horse-race between the DP and the opposition leader.” Andati avers that there are indications Wetang’ula could have sanctioned Dr Khalwale to start drumming support for Ruto in Western. ALSO READ:

What Uhuru Kenyatta said in Kikuyu (Video) “It is not difficult to guess where Wetang’ula is headed, he will be with Ruto. If not, Ford Kenya would have reprimanded or expelled Khalwale for going against wishes and whims of his party boss,” argued Andati. Khalwale wants Wetang’ula and Mudavadi to merge Ford Kenya and ANC then form an alliance with Ruto, who according to the former Senator stands a better chances of succeeding President Uhuru. Political pundits predict that it would be hard for Wetang’ula and Mudavadi to consolidate Western into a solid voting bloc because of vested political interests. “Their tribulations began when they skipped Raila’s mock swearing-in at Uhuru Park. They even attempted to organise  rallies to redeem themselves but fizzled out almost immediately. Since then, Mudavadi has not come out strongly,” said Andati. Most of Mudavadi’s foot soldiers like Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi have opted to identify with Raila. 