With deployment of tight security to man ongoing Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination across the country, at Moi High School Kapsowar in Elgeyo Marakwet County, the situation is on a higher pedestal. The school, on top of deployment of KNEC invigilators and supervisors has embraced technology through use of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras to ensure exams are conducted devoid of any compromise that might jeopardise results. ALSO READ:

Candidate dies before paper Save for a few places like toilets and inside the dormitories, the entire institution is under 24-hour surveillance. “We embraced the technology not necessarily for manning of KCSE examination but to deter bad behaviour from within and outside the school,” said school Principal Hellen Nyabuto. When Saturday Standard visited the school, we found the principal flipping from one camera to another and through a monitor screen, she virtually runs school activities. Asked if the cameras might cower candidates in exam rooms since they know they are being monitored, Ms Nyabuto responded; “The students were inducted on how the CCTVworks months before the start of the exams and they are comfortable with the piece of technology.” She said from her office she can watch activities of the entire school: “Time management, responsibility and lesson attendance has improved tremendously. Safety within the school has also been enhanced,” said Nyabuto. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 She added, “Last term some students complained that they had lost clothes and money. We reviewed the footage and nabbed the culprits.” The principal stated that incidents of indiscipline have also reduced among staff members and  learners as well since over 80 per cent of the school is being watched. She encouraged her peers to embrace technology because it reduces stress and encourages psychological comfort. ALSO READ:

University student in court for exam irregularity Last year thugs stormed the school's staff quarters and killed a father and his two children, and injured his wife. “With soaring arson attacks, movement of those who get in and out of learning institutions should be monitored,” she said. 