Farmers in the North Rift and some local political leaders have rejected calls to diversify maize farming with other crops. The leaders are now saying those proposing the diversification are hell-bent on dampening efforts of promoting maizefarming. ALSO READ:

Team set up to probe sugar mess after Uhuru directive “The information is misleading and a ploy by cartels to cause a deficit in maize production so that it can warrant importation from Mexico. Why should we be forced to go for alternate crops in a region good in maize production?” asked Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny. “We are aware that there are some individuals who have succeeded in securing large tracts of land in neighbouring countries and ready to plant more than 500,000 acres of maize. Where will they get the market for their produce?” Some leaders, including Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, have been encouraging farmers to venture into crops such as macadamia, avocado and coffee. This week, during the memorial for the late Eldoret Diocese Catholic Bishop Cornelius Korir, he said diversification is the way to go in order to maximise production. Cushion families Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content “There is no day that I have told farmers to abandon maize, my call has always been to ensure they spare one acre for diversification, so that during harvest, they can cushion their families from tough times,” said Mandago. Deputy President William Ruto said the government is keen to find market in India and China for a variety of crops apart from maize. “Agriculture is fully devolved and it is up to counties to advise citizens on the need to opt for alternate cash crops. Here in Uasin Gishu, we can plant avocado. In my farm I have begun planting 50 acres of cabbages because maize has become a difficult bargain and you should also not be left behind,” said Ruto. ALSO READ:

Blame game as 5,000 animals die in Taita Taveta But Moiben MP Silas Tiren said farmers are being pushed to diversify their production yet the state has not concluded payments for this year’s produce delivered at the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB). Farmers also distanced themselves from the debate, insisting that they will continue with maize farming until their issues are addressed. “If the government cannot currently afford to store maize that can take up to five years, how can it manage to preserve fruits such as avocado that perish within a week? Farmers do not have fridges and coolers for that,” said Kenya FarmersAssociation Director Kipkorir Menjo.