Jamal Khashoggi walked into the Saudi Consulate four weeks ago to obtain a document to allow him to marry. Instead, he was brutally murdered by a team of 15 agents sent from Riyadh. Saudi authorities now acknowledge the crime was premeditated. Yet much about it remains undisclosed, including what happened to Khashoggi’s body, which has not been returned to his family. Before the Saudi government admitted to the death and likely culpability in the murder of the Washington post columnist, the whole saga reminded me of the story of Joseph, the son of Jacob. Both the Quran and the Bible describe the mischief of the brothers of Joseph when they lied to their father and said and that Joseph had accidently fallen into a pit and was subsequently devoured by a wolf. ALSO READ:

Tipper rams into house killing child To prove their narrative, they brought the coat Joseph was wearing. The father got suspicious and asked his sons whether they were telling him the truth. Apparently the story was not adding up. If a wolf indeed had devoured the young Joseph, his colourful coat would have been tattered because ideally, wolfs don’t undress a prey before they eat them or at least the garment would surely have been soiled or shown signs of mutilation. Jacob was suspicious and was sure his sons were not telling the truth. Fortunately, the story in the scripture had a happy ending. Joseph was found by a caravan heading to Egypt and in the end he became the pharaoh’s chief minister. Unfortunately for Khashoggi, he met his fate in the hands of 15 brutal murderers. Saudi regime The denial by the Saudi Government is similar to Joseph’s story. A video footage showed Khashoggi walking into the consulate but was not seen coming out. The Saudi narrative on what happened oscillated between denials, admitting he died, to accepting his body was dismembered. Why the journalist was killed is not clear. There is speculation that he might have planned to expose the Saudi Government for using chemical weapons in Yemen. Others say the Saudi Government was trying to send a message to other dissidents on what awaits them in case they don’t desist from subverting the Saudi regime. The royal leadership of the Saudi Kingdom plays an important role in the Muslim world. The leadership is the custodians of Islam’s holiest shrines Mecca and Medina. Saudia Arabia is also considered to be the centre of Islam. Every year tens of millions of pilgrims visit the Arab nation to perform their Hajj or pilgrimage. Most of the learned clerics have gone through the Centres of learning in Saudia Arabia. The expectation is that the Saudi Government is supposed to show the highest form of moral standards. A New York Times Columist Feisal Devji in an article described the dilemma Muslims now face on how to interpret the death of Khashoggi and the involvement of the Saudi Government. Previously, Saudi Arabia had been accused of exporting an extreme interpretation of Islam. Link between Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content There is lack of tolerance within Saudi Arabia in how the government deals with dissidents and the exclusion of Women from actively participating in the society by confining them to their homes. Unfortunately, anything that comes from Saudia Arabia has become associated with Islam. Unfortunately, many critics of Islam have already started putting the link between the murder of Khashoggi with Islam. Yet at the core of this debate, there is a consensus within Muslims about the how they feel regarding this brutal murder. Many Muslims see a clear contradiction of Islamic tenets in this foul murder. My interpretation of this is that there is a conflict within the Saudi Society on what pathway to take on matters of governance. Khashoggi could have been part of a group which was intending to change the governance system, favouring a more democratic style similar to that advocated by the Islamic brotherhood in Egypt where leadership can be acquired through democratic means. The Saudi rulers are afraid of this. There are reports that Khashoggi was part of a growing number of intellectuals who are advocating for more democracy in Saudi Arabia. Back to the story of Joseph in the scriptures, the death of Khashoggi could signify the change. The story of Joseph showed that through the hardship that Joseph went through, eventually the children of Israel were liberated. I have a feeling Khashoggis death might not be in vain; it could usher in a new dawn in the Arab World where Islam and democracy can go hand in hand. ALSO READ:

Khashoggi's fiancé hits at Trump Mr Guleid is executive director of the Frontier Counties Development Council (FCDC)