Patients and some candidates in day schools were among those hit by a transport crisis as the traffic department began a crackdown on vehicles flouting safety rules. In Elgeyo Marakwet County, patients were left stranded after dozens of PSVs plying the Iten-Eldoret road were impounded. ALSO READ:

Candidates to be ferried by school buses amid crisis Christine Mutai was unable to travel to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret where she had an appointment with a specialist. “I had booked an appointment with a doctor and I was expecting to see him at 9am and it is now 3pm... The police should have allowed some of the matatus to ferry patients and expectant mothers to hospitals to save lives,” said Ms Mutai. Musa Kiptarus, a traveller from Baringo County, said he was taking a patient to a private hospital in Eldoret when the matatu they were travelling in from Kabarnet was impounded by police in Iten. In Trans Nzoia, some day school students arrived at examination centres late due to the matatu strike. PSVs from Kitale to Nairobi increased fare from Sh800 to Sh1,500. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Those travelling from Kitale to Lodwar were had to pay Sh4,000, up from Sh2,500. Three lecturers from Rift Valley Institute of Science and Technology, who were travelling to deliver Knec practical examination papers in Nairobi, were among those stranded for hours. But Prestige shuttles maintained its charges from Nairobi to Nakuru at Sh400, Sh700 to Kisumu, Sh900 to Busia, Sh800 to Bungoma and Sh1,500 to Mombasa. ALSO READ:

Modifying a matatu can cost owner over Sh100,000 In Kakamega, PSVs were withdrawn from the roads, forcing residents to rely on boda bodas, tuk tuks and taxis. Rhoda Milimo, a passenger, said the few available vehicles hiked fares. Kakamega County Matatu Owners Association Chairman Joseph Kindi said the deadline given by the Government to comply with “Michuki Rules” was too short. In Bungoma, passengers at the main bus park were stranded as many matatus were kept off the road with the few in operation hiking their fares. In Kisumu, County Commissioner Pauline Dola, Regional Traffic Enforcement Officer Andrew Naibei and County Commandant Job Boronjo officially launched the crackdown at the main bus park. Three roadblocks were erected at the Kondele roundabout, Airport Road and within the Central Business District. Following the move, PSV vehicles that had complied with the law hiked fares following increased demand. Kisumu to Bondo ALSO READ:

Report: More Kenyans facing traffic-related cases in courts Town service vehicles hiked their fare up to Sh100 from the normal Sh20, while fare from Kisumu to Bondo, Bungoma and Siaya were increased by Sh200. Kisii main bus terminus remained deserted the whole day yesterday. At Ogembo and Nyangusu, area Traffic Base Commander Elvis Kemboi led a crackdown that netted a number of private cars and matatus . In Homa Bay, passengers who spoke to journalists pleaded with the Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and his Transport counterpart to order for reduction in fares. A spot check at the Homa Bay bus terminal revealed that matatu owners were charging a flat rate of Sh500. In Mt Kenya region, most transport operators stayed off the roads yesterday leaving commuters stranded. Private car owners had a field day as they made quick cash. In Kirinyaga, Kukena Sacco was the only operator whose vehicles were plying but hiked fare from Kerugoya to Nairobi from the normal Sh250 to Sh500. The sacco operations Manager Robinson Chomba said his organisation supported the implementation of the rules. ALSO READ:

How the return of Michuki rules will hit you hard In the three major matatu termini in Meru town, only the main Meru stage with PSVs plying Nairobi, Chuka and Embu was operational. The Nkubu-Meru and Makutano terminus remained deserted. However, the operators who remained in business yesterday hiked fares, with Meru-Nairobi fares shooting to Sh1,200, up from Sh600. Matatu operators in Embu County accused traffic police officers of harassing them even though they had complied with the Traffic Act. And Makueni County Commissioner Mohammed Maalim said over 30 vehicles and 34 motorcycles had been impounded by midday yesterday along Mombasa-Nairobi highway. In Coast, fares between Malindi and Mombasa rose with some buses charging Sh1,500, up from Sh450. Several vehicles including buses and matatus operating along Garissa-Hola-Malindi road abandoned operations. Police officers backed by prison warders were on key highways in Kilifi, Taita Taveta and Mombasa from as early as 4am. In Mombasa, thousands of residents trekked long distances to work. ALSO READ:

Move away from crackdown to enforcing rules; it’s smart, cheap Samuel Kazungu, a trader, complained that he could not transport his greens from Kongowea market to Malindi. In Mwatate and Taita sub-counties, at least 17 people, among them drivers, conductors, motorcycle riders and passengers, were arrested for flouting traffic rules. [Stephen Rutto, Osinde Obare, Jackline Inyanji, Raphael Wanjala, Eric Lungai, Washington Onyango, Eric Abuga, James Omoro, Caleb King’wara, Kevine Omollo, Munene Kamau, Darlington Manyara, Joseph Muchiri, Allan Mungai, Steven Nzioka, Renson Mnyamwezi, Willis Oketch, Nehemiah Okwembah, Mishi Gongo and Hassan Barisa]