Kenya has been re-elected to the Council of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), the UN specialized agency for ICTs. Kenya garnered 140 votes, the highest on the continent, followed by Algeria and Morroco with 134 and 133 votes respectively, and is among 13 countries that will represent Africa to one of the key decision making organs of the ITU. It is the best performance Kenya has posted in recent times at the ITU elections. The win at the ongoing ITU Plenipotentiary Conference in Dubai, United Arab Emirates is a stamp of confidence in the credibility and goodwill that Kenya enjoys in the global ICT community and her outstanding leadership in the development of ICT services. Other countries that made it through from the continent include Algeria, Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, Egypt, Ghana, Morocco, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, South Africa, Tunisia and Uganda. ICT Cabinet Secretary Mr. Joe Mucheru led Kenya’s final campaigns at the event, calling on the world to support Kenya’s bid. The victory is a second major win for Kenya this year, as it comes hot on the heels of winning the African Telecommunications Union (ATU) Secretary General’s seat in August this year. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. Africa has 13 positions on the 48-member body that governs ITU’s activities in the interval between Plenipotentiary Conferences. Its role is to consider broad telecommunication policy issues to ensure that the Union's activities, policies and strategies fully respond to today's dynamic, rapidly changing telecommunications environment. The ITU Council also prepares a report on the policy and strategic planning of the ITU and responsible for ensuring the smooth day-to-day running of the Union, coordinating work programmes, approving budgets and controlling finances and expenditure. Meanwhile, a Kenyan, Mr. Stanley Kibe has also been recognized for his outstanding contribution to the work of the ITU. Mr. Kibe, who is a former Director for Frequency Spectrum Management at the Communications Authority of Kenya was among six (6) individuals awarded medals and certificates as outgoing members of the Radio Regulations Board (RRB) the ITU. Her has served as a member of the RRB for eight years. His second and final term ends in December this year. The RRB is a critical organ of the ITU that approves rules of procedure in frequency assignments made by member states. Its members are elected during ITU Plenipotentiary Conferences and perform their duties independently and on a part-time basis, normally meeting up to four times a year, in Geneva, Switzerland.