 A crack paramilitary unit officer who had been arrested in connection with the murder of Monica Kimani was on Friday released by a Kiambu Court. Jennings Olando Odhiambo  of the General Service Unit was released unconditionally by Senior Principal Magistrate Stella Atambo. The GSU officer's release came after one of the detectives in the investigative team, Maxwell Otieno, asked the court to release the officer, Otieno told the court that the detectives had exhausted all areas of investigation which they were seeking the suspect to assist in. He however said the investigation team is yet to get a report on items that were submitted to the government chemist for analysis. The detective added investigations into the murder were ongoing and requested the court to order the suspect to report to DCI headquarters once a week. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “The suspect is a serving police officer and we are aware of his current work station. We know where to get him should he fail to turn up when required,” said Mr Otieno. Prosecution counsel Christine Mbevi told court that she was not opposed to the application by DCI to have the suspect released. “As the prosecution we are therefore seeking a mention date in two months’ time during which we will close the miscellaneous application file,” she said. “The suspect is hereby directed to be reporting to the DCI homicide section every Wednesday for the next two months. A mention to confirm compliance of the same will be held on January 8, 2019,” ruled Ms Atambo. On October 19, the court granted police 14 days to detain Odhiambo in order to further conduct investigations into Monica’s murder. It is believed that Orlando could become a prospective State witness in the murder case. Odhiambo has been assigned to the  US embassy. Odhiambo was detained with two other suspects, Jacque Maribe and Joseph Irungu, who were last month charged with Monicah’s murder. They denied the charges.