The first direct Kenya Airways (KQ) flight from Nairobi to New York aroused mixed reactions. The media covered much of it but was split on whether it was worth it. On the positive side were media celebrities Richard Quest of CNN and Alex Chamwada of KTN’s Chamwada Report, each giving the flight his “touch”. In the midst of feel good and sense of achievement, the usual skeptics behaved normal. Skeptics claiming that flying directly from Nairobi to New York is not a big deal are politically dis-ingenious and mischievous. They appear to have a mission without vision, eager to destroy rather than to build, and anxious to condemn. ALSO READ:

Historic KQ flight lands in US They succeeded in showing their inability to convince the public, through print, electronic, and social media that the KQ flight was no big deal. The KQ flight is not the first to fly from Nairobi to New York. In the 1970s, the now defunct Pan American Airlines dominated the global skyline and flew between Nairobi and New York, but took longer to reach either destination. It made stopovers in Nigeria, Liberia, and Senegal before crossing the Atlantic to New York. At that time, KQ was hardly noticeable; a remnant of the East African Airways that collapsed with the imminent death of the first East African Community. Village relocations Although the Community had done relatively well, its death was expected because the neighbours were suffering self-inflicted ideological wounds. They debated and disagreed on something called “socialism” that made them insult, rather work together. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Kenya had led the way in 1965 in stating an ideological position, “Sessional Paper Number 10 on African Socialism and Its Application to Planning in Kenya” that insulted the word socialism. As Mwai Kibaki, one of the document architects asserted in a 1997 presidential debate with Benjamin Dubai, “We rejected socialism.” In contrast, Tanzania embraced “socialism” with its 1967 Arusha Declaration and forced it on people with Ujamaa slogans and village relocations. Uganda issued its own 1969 Common Man’s Charter whose distinguishing mark was the expulsion of Kenyans because they were “capitalistic.” Thus, the three Community countries entered the 1970s being hostile to each other and their “common” institutions were bound to collapse. The three have since healed from the wounds of the 1960s and 1970s, although scars still remain. They have resurrected and expanded the “Community” to include those with serious war or conflict wounds. ALSO READ:

KQ pilot who will fly into the history books today Giving hope for bright futures in common regional ways is one way of healing ideological and other wounds and also part of positioning in the ongoing global realignment. In that sense, the KQ flight was Kenya claiming its niche in that geopolitical realignment. Regional force Quest did more than enjoy himself in Nairobi, he helped Uhuru clear some Kenyan political cobwebs. He asked Uhuru whether he would seek to change the constitution to serve his political interests and Uhuru’s answer was “absolutely not”. That took the political sail from supposed “Uhuru champions” who want to expand the national executive to accommodate Uhuru’s youthfulness. However, Uhuru wants to leave a legacy of “unity,” corruption eradication and boosting the Big Four to propel Kenya into middle income status. Turning Nairobi into a regional travel hub would be one way of attracting investments. A KQ that reaches far places, therefore, would raise Kenya’s name recognition, increase attendant businesses, and secure its position as a regional force. Since the likely benefits to arise from expanding the KQ global presence, and its potential for economic stimulation, outweigh possible liabilities, ensuring KQ flight sustainability would ascertain the Uhuru legacy. There is no danger of PanAm resuscitating to cut into KQ’s cultivated aviation niche. The excitement and discussion on KQ venture into New York is nationally healthy. What is wrong with Kenyans thinking, asking questions, ignoring perennial pessimists, and just doing what needs doing? In KQ ventures, they are not myopic. ALSO READ:

What direct flights to New York City mean for Kenya's growth Prof Munene teaches History and International Relations at USIU; machariamunene15@gmail.com