A day after he visited Nyamira County with a bag of goodies, Deputy President William Ruto has come under a fresh wave of criticism for allegedly relaunching old development projects and new projects that are not in the budget. Former Kitutu Masaba MP and ODM’s National Treasurer Timothy Bosire told the Standard that Ruto was on a campaign trail and no new development project has been initiated in Nyamira. ALSO READ:

Ruto orders squatters to vacate Mau forest During Ruto’s tour of Nyamira on Monday, he announced the Government was funding Mong'oni Youth Technical Institute at a cost of Sh50 million, a project that that Bosire said was launched way back in 2016. Mong’oni Institute which is under Kisii National Polytechnic, received Sh10 million funding from the area’s CDF kitty in 2016. Ruto has, however, fought back and accused Bosire of stalling development projects due to his ‘bad politics and bad blood with the Jubilee Government. While singling out the development of Keroka Sub County Hospital, he maintained it was Jubilee’s Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrack Mose who was championing its completion. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Ruto further promise a State funding of Sh100 million towards the hospital. Hitherto, Bosire said the DP’s remarks were not morally founded and accused him of character assignation. “I didn’t have capacity to stop any development project in my area. As he defiantly moves across the country he should be mindful of his campaign against a selective group of leaders,” he said.  ALSO READ:

Ruto allies: 'Lifestyle audit targeting our man' Ruto Support A section of area leaders declared their support for Deputy President William Ruto, saying they owed it to his development agenda. Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi said his support for Ruto dated back to more than 20 years. “I will not change my mind on supporting him. My plan to succeed as a Governor in the next general election is well on course because of the support I have been getting from Ruto, we will pay that debt in 2022,” he said.