 Following on from an exciting week of new video game releases at E3 in Los Angeles , the subject of game addiction has become a recurring one. ALSO READ:

Croatian striker sent home for ‘refusing to play’ in Nigeria win Now the World Health Organisation has officially classified "gaming disorder" as a mental health condition and included it in the 11th edition of its International Classification of Diseases. According to Dr. Vladimir Poznyak, a member of the WHO's Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse, there are three major diagnostic features of gaming disorder. "One is that the gaming behavior takes precedence over other activities to the extent that other activities are taken to the periphery," he told CNN . The second one is "impaired control of these behaviors," so that even when negative consequences occur, people continue to play games. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The third is that the condition leads to significant distress and impairment in personal, family, social, educational or occupational functioning. Digging into the terminology a little bit reveals that playing the odd 20-minute game of FIFA or plugging an hour into Zelda each weekend is not going to be detrimental to your health. But, if it starts to become all-consuming (think eight-hour overnight binges) and the rest of your life starts to become unimportant, then there are signs of a problem. The WHO has made it clear that it does not include any prevention or treatment methods, but rather just a clinical description of what constitutes a disorder. ALSO READ:

Why Egypt’s Elshenawy declined ‘Man of the Match Award’ In order for a successful diagnosis to be made, the pattern of behaviour must last for at least 12 months. "Millions of gamers around the world, even when it comes to the intense gaming, would never qualify as people suffering from gaming disorder," Poznyak said. He added that the prevalence of this condition is very low. In February, a dad-of-three died during a 24-hour video game marathon he was livestreaming online for charity. Brian Vigneault, 35, is believed to have taken a break 22 hours into playing World of Tanks to raise money for the Make-A-Wish Foundation on Twitch.tv. He was found unresponsive at his Virginia Beach home later that evening and was pronounced dead at the scene, the Sun reported. A growing awareness of how to effectively manage children's gaming habits is now becoming a key part of parenting. ALSO READ:

Pogba stripped of France goal after Mourinho identifies the scorer Mirror Tech video game columnist Andy Robertson had some thoughts on the WHO's classification. "Beyond accurate labelling, what we actually need is to help parents guide their children towards gaming health from a young age," he said. "As with diet and plates, we need to understand what is on the screen rather than just limiting screen-time." To help parents, Andy's book Taming Gaming , provides an easy insight into the world of video games they can use to demystify the subject.