A woman whose three children were killed in Eldoret in May last year has narrated how her life has changed from one of happiness to agony. Ebby Isaji broke down as she testified about life without her children, who disappeared on their way to church before they were found floating in River Nzoia. ALSO READ:

Court told of Sh1.2m pay in murder trial “I now feel lonely. I gave birth to three healthy children, but I have none now. I do not know how to fill the gap. I want justice done." “I remember how my children were well-dressed, preparing to go to church on Saturday. But it is unfortunate they did not find their way to church,” she testified before the Eldoret High Court on Wednesday. The court was forced to adjourn proceedings after Isaji broke down as she reminisced the tragic events of that day. In the case, Enoch Onsase, Isaji's brother-in-law, is charged with the murder of Clifford Nyambane (six), Taniy Nyamweya (five) and Glen Ongaki (three). He has denied the charges. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. At the the time, the family lived in Kapsoya, a few kilometres from Eldoret town. "I was in the church looking for my children only to be told they were seen with my brother-in-law. “My efforts to reach my brother-in-law via his mobile phone to inquire about my children were not successful. When I called, he refused to pick my calls,” the children's mother narrated. James Nyambane, the children’s father, also testified that during the children’s burial arrangements, he received a call from his brother asking for forgiveness for his actions. ALSO READ:

APs could be charged with killing of woman “Your honour, as we were planning for the burial of my children, I received a call from someone who I perceived to be my brother while in custody telling me to forgive him for what he did to me. The caller told me he knew what he had done was painful, but begged for forgiveness. The case was adjourned to June 27.