To anyone who know him Prince Kalid bin Al-Saud was a privileged member of the Saudi Royal Family. He wore Rolex watches, drove a Ferrari with ‘diplomatic’ plates and owned a two-bedroom home on the upmarket millionaire's haven. He appeared to have powerful business connections and more than half a billion dollars in the bank. ALSO READ:

Keep off teachers hiring, TSC warns fraudsters All of it was a lie. Prince Kalid, real name Anthony Gignac, faces spending years of his life behind bars after admitting impersonating a foreign government official, identity theft and fraud. It was all part of an elaborate scam which saw Gignac, 47, and accomplices dupe 26 victims across the world out of at least Sh800m ($8million) over the last two years. "He falsely told others that he had diplomatic immunity and was required to check in with the U.S. Department of State every few hours," according passed from the U.S. attorney's office to the Miami Herald. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. "Gignac was given gifts, including expensive paintings and jewelry, based on his false representations." Prince Kalid was just one of many aliases used by Kalid to convince investors to cash in on his fraudulent business deals. Born in Colombia, the former street child lived in the US since the early 1990s. He was arrested in November when attempting to fly from London to New York while using a fake passport with another name, according to reports. Investigators acquired a search warrant to Gignac’s condo, which reportedly had a ‘sultan’ nameplate on the front door. ALSO READ:

Two senior officials face fraud charges Inside they found a cache of different business cards with Gignac’s various idenities and self-given titles, including ‘His Royal Highness’. Fake diplomatic licence plates, a security badge, illegal credit cards and thousands of dollars in cash were also discovered, as were financial documents with the name of a member of the royal family. In 2015 Gignac and partners created a fake investment company called Marden Williams International. They falsely claimed to be able to facilitate exclusive business investments with the Saudi Royal Family. One investor paid Sh500m ($5 million) to the company. In 2017, Gignac pretended to be a member of the Saudi Royal Family - reportedly with a Sh6b ($600 million) fortune in a J.P Morgan account. He stayed at the hotel using a credit card in the name of a member of the royal family. During the visit he drove a Ferrari with diplomatic license plates. According to the herald an accomplice, Carl Williamson, who assisted Gignac in his scams was also charged. He died in March. ALSO READ:

How money transfer unmasked bogus vet At his plea last week, Gignac was found to eligible for a lawyer paid for by the taxpayer - indicating whatever fortune he amassed may be no more. Gignac faces sentencing in August where he could receive a maximum of ten years in prison.