A popular  Central Kenya musician is in the eye of a storm after his newest song was tweaked and negative clips of Deputy President William Ruto juxtaposed, triggering a major controversy over 2022 succession politics. The song, 'Mbari Ya Kimendero' by Muigai wa Njoroge on the state of the nation is now the subject of debate among politicians and is likely to raise political temperatures in Central and Rift Valley regions, where the succession game plan is still unfolding. ALSO READ:

MP faults Ruto on illegal sugar It has revived the debate on political songs, which have been blamed for continued polarisation of the country. 'Mbari ya Kimendero' (Clan of the greedy) was released early this month and has been corrupted to introduce images of Ruto in what Muigai terms an attempt to assassinate the character of the Deputy President. Yesterday, the singer distanced himself from the corrupted version of the song. “I am a man of God and I cannot publish a song that will evoke ethnic tension,” the musician told The Standard.  Original video “I am the composer of the original video, 'Mbari ya Kimendero', but not the fake version that was plagiarised by my haters to tarnish my name,” said Muigai. He calls men in power “dinosaurs” and “corrupt leaders who work day and night to ensure that water (services) do not reach Wanjiku”. The song highlights Kenya’s poor leadership. ALSO READ:

Back Luhya candidate, Ruto and Raila urged Muigai said his original song was plagiarised and photos of the Deputy President and his family injected into the video. He said the fake song was shared on various social media platforms, including Facebook, by people out to tarnish his name. Muigai said he recorded his complaint with the Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) citing plagiarism of  'Kimendero', which means 'crusher' or 'oppressor'. “I have presented a copy of my original song to the DCI and the matter is under investigation,” he said. Issued disclaimer The musician has issued a disclaimer on YouTube that some unscrupulous people have manipulated his video to feature clips and pictures of a senior Government official and his family, depicting him as the official godfather of corruption. The song has received condemnation from a cross-section of leaders, with some claiming some politicians were behind a smear campaign for their personal political gain. ALSO READ:

Raila new strategy stirs talk of 2022 It is the subject of debate among MPs, who have been discussing it on WhatsApp chat groups. In the song, Muigai castigates the ‘Kimendero’ generation for amassing  wealth by diverting public resources to personal use.. The word 'Kimendero' was generally used to refer to Kikuyu homeguards who sided with the colonialists during the independence struggle. Muigai says their only interest is self-aggrandisement through shameless plunder of public property. He also invokes what he calls the 'Kimathi (Field Marshal Dedan), Kaggia (ex-Kandara MP Bildad) and Mathenge (lost Mau Mau General Stanley) curse', which he says will ensure that corrupt politicians are cut down to size - from the equivalent of prehistoric dinosaurs to lizards, their supposed descendants. He says the fate of 'Kimendero' is sealed as its members will perish in India while seeking medical treatment for their complex ailments. Muigai also alludes to the fact that a generational swap of power between families of prominent politicians was being planned. He also directly attacks the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. He takes a swipe at some of the political giants who are grooming their sons to take over once they have finished their terms in office. The song has been viewed more than 300,000 times on YouTube. Interestingly, several other musicians have composed political songs with veiled messages aimed at the 2022 succession. ALSO READ:

Ruto feted in Kampala Three months ago, another Central Kenya musician, Kimani wa Turraco, caused a stir with his hit song, 'Hatuna Deni' (We owe no one) in an apparent link to the political debt Central Kenya is said to owe the Deputy President. Political debt Mr Ruto has come out openly to state that no community owes him a political debt for supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta in the last two elections. The song, which has nearly 32,000 hits on YouTube, was widely condemned, with politicians, especially from the Rift Valley, calling for the musician's prosecution for allegedly fomenting trouble and hatred. The musician reminds the community about the 2008 tribal clashes in the Rift Valley and specifically mentions the Kiambaa massacre. The composer says his community should not be dragged into the issue of political debt. But there are songs that have been composed in praise of Ruto and the need to have him supported in his quest for the presidency. 'Twambe Turihe Thiiri' (let us pay the debt first) by John De Mathew, a Kikuyu composer with a wide fan base, is on the other side of the spectrum. De Mathew also welcomes Raila ‘back home’ after the handshake, but juxtaposing that with pictures of Uhuru and Ruto and the handshake, speaks of the parable of the camel and the tent owner. He also cites the Kikuyu proverb that  says once bitten by a snake, one shudders on seeing a piece of rope in the yard. ALSO READ:

Raila and Mudavadi betrayed me in 2007 elections, says DP That is the reason why this debt must be paid, he declares. Yesterday, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu criticised the composers of the songs, saying they were in bad taste, divisive and meant to incite Kenyans. “It gives credence to my argument that we don’t need to put the country in a political mood four years before elections. We should all condemn these kinds of songs that are fuelled by the useless debate on 2022 at a time when we should be thinking about development,” he said. Better placed Outspoken Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria declined to comment on the songs, only saying “the musicians are better placed to speak about their music". Tinderet MP Julius Melly said the country should be united against any form of division. “We urge musicians to observe values under the Nation Cohesion and Integration Commission. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto have played their part in uniting the country. We do not want anyone to break this," he said. “Music should be used to preach peace and unity in the country. We should have a one united and strong nation.” Aldai MP Cornelly Serem said, “If one knows there is no debt, why go out and shout? If you have a debt, you should know it yourself or wait to be served a Credit Reference Bureau notice. “Songs are just commercial and people use them to look for money. It does not translate into votes. We know of an unwritten agreement that after Uhuru, it will be Ruto. I have not heard anyone in Jubilee dispute this,” Serem said. “Some amorphous and faceless animal is behind such music. They should come out and state their stand.” [Additional reporting by Faith Karanja]