 At the heart of crime fighting lies a fundamental question. When incidences of crime go up, does this mean there is more crime, or conversely, that more people are reporting crime? ALSO READ:

MPs cite House teams for bribery While most would assume the former, in fact, it is often the case that anti-crime drives lead to a short-term increase in crime statistics. When, for example, a police force decides to tackle knife crime, or money laundering, it will generally lead to a spate of arrests. This is largely due to the fact that law enforcement begins to take the fight against crime more seriously, and in turn, the public feels empowered to report crimes to the authorities. Furthermore, a well-publicised anti-crime drive attracts media attention, meaning that the public will become more and more aware of crimes that are committed. But does this mean that knife crime or money laundering have actually increased? Not necessarily, and in fact, not likely. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. I am reminded of this issue whenever I open a newspaper. For it seems that almost every day at the moment, there is a story about corruption in the press. There was the NYS scandal, where it was reported that looting of as much as Sh1.8 billion led to the arrest of more than 50 top officials. Then there was the charging of Busia County Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and nine others for allegedly stealing millions of shillings of public funds. Next was the arrest of Ben Chumo, the former CEO of Kenya Power, along with senior officials on suspicion of fraud and abuse of office. ALSO READ:

How successive regimes sowed seeds of graft Contaminated sugar Most recently we read that Cabinet secretaries Henry Rotich and Adan Mohamed could be forced out of office and possibly investigated after parliamentary committees recommended that the DCI should probe their actions in relation to the importation of contaminated sugar. The committees also called for the investigation of former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett, now the Kenya High Commissioner to India, for aiding companies to import sugar without paying duty. And on the same day as this news broke, we read that Sirisia MP John Waluke was charged with presenting a false invoice. Reading this litany of corruption cases in the media in recent weeks, one could be forgiven for thinking that corruption is on the rise in the country. But in fact, the opposite seems to be true. It isn’t that corruption is on the rise, but rather that the authorities are making more of an effort to uncover it. Ever since being sworn in for a second term, President Uhuru Kenyatta has become a man possessed in the anti-graft fight, and even went as far as to compare it with the fight against colonialism in its national significance. ALSO READ:

House leadership is a weak link in graft war In less than a year, he has done more to fight corruption than previous presidents did in a decade. The appointment of Noordin Hajji has put the corrupt on the back foot. The inevitable He has restructured the various anti-graft institutions, clearing out tired and failed personnel, and equipping them to tackle 21st century corruption. And he has outlined a new raft of practices to enable the detection and prosecution of corruption, notably the fresh vetting of all procurement and accounts heads, polygraph tests for procurement officers, more transparency surrounding public tenders, and lifestyle audits for all public servants. The inevitable outcome of these measures is a new series of corruption cases. Not only is this unavoidable, but it is desirable. It should be celebrated, not lamented, as it is a sign of success. It means that the new anti-corruption drive is working, that the new institutions and personnel are working, and that the new legislative framework is working. Just like when you move a rock that has been stationary for a while, you never know what creatures you will find beneath it, so when you begin to seriously investigate corruption, it is inevitable that a myriad cases will come up. For the first time in recent memory, we are looking under rocks and shining a light in ugly places that were previously ignored. It may be uncomfortable for a while, but this does not mean corruption is increasing. Rather, for the first time I think we are beginning to win. Mr Temba is Senior Communications Advisor to Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa ALSO READ:

People Daily puts its case to House