 NAIROBI, KENYA: The government has set out stringent measures for maize suppliers to the National Cereals and Produce Board before access of Sh1.4 billion owed to them. ALSO READ:

Old cereals board to go in reforms On Monday, the Ministry of Devolution said each farmer must fill a single claim form listing all the deliveries and the respective depots at which the deliveries were maid and the claim form has to be duly certified by the claimant’s area chief and an agriculture officer. “The claimants must from Wednesday 22 present themselves to the nearest NCPB depot with the originals and copies of National Identity card, PIN Certificate, weighbridge ticket,” said Charles Sunkuli, Principal Secretary Ministry of Devolution. In case of companies CR 12 form, companies’ bank details PIN certificate and tax compliant certificate must be presented. The National Treasury has set aside Sh1.4 billion to be used to offset part of the outstanding payments to farmers. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. The release of Sh 1.4 billion by the state towards clearance of maize farmers’ debts for supplies to the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) has sparked off more fears among producers. Producers said failure by the government to clear the total debt of over Sh 3.5 billion owed to them in the last eight months spells doubt on ability to purchase harvests from current crop expected to mature in the next two months. “The government through NCPB took maize from farmers on credit and has never paid since January despite frequent promises from top officials. We struggled to plant the current crop despite huge debts owed to us,” said Thomas Korgoren, a farmer in Uasin Gishu. He added: “Farmers have been taken on a ride with failed promises. The Sh 1.4 billion released recently is too little to clear the debts. Several promises including Agriculture Cabinet Secretary (CS) Mwangi Kiunjuri’s promise of Sh 1 billion, Treasury CS Henry Rotich pledge of Sh 1.4 billion twice and Deputy President 2 billion during Trade Principal Secretary Dr Chris Kiptoo’s home coming but farmers are still waiting,” he said. ALSO READ:

Sh1.4 billion cash for maize famers Sources hinted that the Sh 1.4 billion will only benefit some 528 genuine farmers who have been vetted, majority of them being small scale maize producers.