MPs who regaled in one of the world’s biggest sporting event in Russia at the expense of Kenyan taxpayers have set a new low for the 12th Parliament. The members of the National Assembly Sports committee chaired by Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka lifted thousands of words from sports websites to compile their report on their World Cup experience in Russia. ALSO READ:

Investigators flag 5,000 bank accounts in corruption purge Of their 37-page report, only the table of contents, chairperson’s foreward, write up on committee membership and recommendations -- all just about three pages -- have not been plagiarised without a whiff of attribution. The entire background information on the tournament, including the hosting, bidding, budget, qualification, draws, transport, match venues and schedules were all lifted word for word from the various sports websites and online search sites. The section on “Preparation for hosting the World Cup” is carbon copy of “Planetizen” blog article of 2010 by one Nate Berg and titled “Why hosting a World Cup does not matter for cities.” The “qualification” part was lifted off Wikipedia search engine, except for one paragraph which notes that “Kenya was knocked out in the second round of the qualifications by Cape Verde.” The “Ticketing” bit was pulled out in its whole from Fifa.com while the writing on their outings to historical sites were pulled off Moscow.com and Wikipedia. In page 26, 27 and 28 of the report, the MPs purported to give the country advice on “benefits of hosting a major sporting event” but it turned out to be word for word of an article by one Tejvan Pettinger which is published in the site Economics.help. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The next four pages -- 29, 30, 31 and 32 -- are “observations” of the MPs wholly lifted from the the site “Penalty Kick’s” in article titled “25 requirements of a FIFA World Cup Stadium.” “It was observed that Russia achieved all these requirements hence the hosting of the 2018 FIFA World Cup,” the MPs said in the only part not plagiarised in that section. The two pages of recommendations are perhaps the only work the committee did in the two week-plus report which is estimated to have cost millions in allowances, accommodation and travel. The outing was styled as a bench-marking tour to “get a good understanding of international standards of football.” Eight MPs represented the committee - Munyaka, Chris Omulele, Jones Mlolwa, Ben Shinali, Dan Wanyama, Sylvanus Maritim, George Sunkuiy, Charles Nguna and one staffer, Fred Otieno. ALSO READ:

Rebuilding our ethical foundations critical to winning anti-graft war They however stumbled on a another delegation from Bunge Sports Club comprising of nine MPs -- including Senators -- and two parliamentary staff whose names were not included in the committee. robala@standardmedia.co.ke and nmusau@standardmedia.co.ke