Police in Eldoret on Sunday have arrested a 24 year old man and recovered an AK47 rifle and 85 rounds of ammunition. Joseph Kiptoo Shikutwa was nabbed by police near his parents' home at Cheptabach in Megun location, and the weapon, which has been buried in a sack recovered. ALSO READ:

Champion Bett to be buried in Eldoret According to police, the suspect who has been staying with his parents and wife in Kesses constituency was arrested as he headed home at 6 pm. Confirming the incident, Eldoret South OCPD Mr. Wilson Abduba said the man, alongside his parents and wife are in police custody awaiting to be taken to court. “He has been on our radar and his arrest was effected after coordination between officers from Cheptiret and Vihiga who had been tracking him. He is wanted in connection to a series of robbery with violence cases in the region,” said Mr. Abduba. He added: “We found a gun with a Ugandan serial number at his home loaded with 26 rounds of ammunition," he said. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The OCPD observed that they are on high alert and will continue to ensure that security in the region is enhanced. According to neighbours, the suspect is a boda boda operator in the area no one suspected that he was involved in criminal activities. “They shifted to the area in 2000 and we have been living with the family unaware that their son is a criminal. We were shocked when police came to their house and recovered a firearm. His arrest has shocked the entire village especially those who knew the family,” said Mark Kibor a resident. According to sources within the police, the suspect was tracked after a businessman was attacked in Vihiga and killed. ALSO READ:

Two killed, eight injured in an accident “The suspects took away money and mobile scratch cards from the shop. They were able to track them through the airtime after it was loaded into the phone, leading to their arrests,” said the source. 