Three family members were killed and four others injured in a grisly road accident involving two personal vehicles along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. The 2am accident happened near the notorious Karai black-spot in Naivasha. ALSO READ:

Man demands to be taken to court The decease were travelling from Nyahururu to Nairobi after attending a dowry ceremony when the accident occurred. The accident adversely affected the flow of traffic before police moved in to remove two of the bodies that had been trapped in the wreck of one of the cars. According to James Kabono from Naivasha Safety group, the vehicle that was heading to Nairobi veered off its lane and rammed head on into the other. He said that on impact, a man and a woman were killed on spot while five others including the minor were injured and rushed to hospital. “The minor however was pronounced dead on arrival at the sub-county hospital while the others were admitted in serious but stable condition,” Kabono said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The accident came hours after tens of motorists were forced to spend the night by the roadside following a seven hour traffic jam in Naivasha that stretched for over 30kms. The weekend jam that started near Delamere farm was caused by an accident involving two cars but was aggravated by overlapping drivers who saw the flow of traffic come to a standstill. And in the second incident, eight people were injured following an accident involving a personal car and a Nissan matatu near the Gilgil weighbridge. ALSO READ:

Six people killed in Kilifi accident The accident occurred on Monday morning after the Nissan matatu which was overtaking rammed head on into the coming personal car that was heading to Nakuru from Nairobi. According to John Mwakibe from Redcross office in Naivasha, the seriously injured patients were referred to Rift Valley PGH while the others were taken to Gilgil sub-county hospital. Mwakibe said that the 4am accident involved the 2NK Nissan matatu that had 14 passengers and a Voxy that had seven passengers. “The seriously injured patients have been referred to Naivasha hospital and PGH for specialized treatment while the others are admitted in Gilgil hospital. A senior police officer confirmed both accidents adding that the wrecks had been towed to Naivasha and Gilgil police stations respectively.  ALSO READ:

NTSA: Road deaths have risen sharply