 The Defence ministry is on the spot for alleged skewed awarding of tenders running into millions of shillings. ALSO READ:

Revealed: Inside the dark world of tender cartels MPs have opened investigations into claims of misuse of restricted tendering by the ministry following protest by a firm involved in meat supply to the Nanyuki base unit. Jack Wright (1982) Ltd, which claims that the highest bidders are winning most contracts, has told the National Assembly that the country could be losing millions of shillings. “The firm will appear before the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee (PAC) on Monday over their complaints against the Department of Defense (DOD) over foodstuff tendering,” said PAC chair Opiyo Wandayi. In their protest letter to the National Assembly, the company claims the ministry awarded a Nairobi-based firm to supply meat for Sh38 more per kilo. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “On May 2015, we tendered for the supply of meat to the Nanyuki base unit only to receive a regret letter that we were not successful. Apparently, the contract was awarded to a Nairobi firm, Quality Meat Packers, at a price of Sh328 per kilo. Our quoted price was Sh290 per kilo,” reads the petition by firm director Fazal Butt to National Assembly Clertk Michael Sialai. “As we were not satisfied with the decision of the award we decided to appeal to the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board … whereby the tender was annulled,” adds the petition. Butt claims that the ministry did not re-advertise the tender but proceeded with a restrictive tendering that it awarded for two years. “The Public Procurement Act is very clear on how government agencies can do restrictive tenders, direct and open tendering. It is my humble request to your good office to see into this matter which is being misused and taxpayers losing millions of shillings,” he says. ALSO READ:

Uhuru order on procurement