Kenya's tourism is set to turn a new page after a group of talented British professional Euro-African vocals were flagged off at the Kenya High commission in London. The vocals are under the banner 'How well do you know Kenya campaign set off on a trip to the country by Kenya's High commissioner Grace Cerere. ALSO READ:

Sh3m set aside to bolster tourism "Welcome to Kenya. I am very pleased to welcome you to Kenya whose tourism has diversified. It is no longer about Masaai Mara or the coastal sand. There is a lot material culture too," said Cerere. The seven British Euro-Afro vocals Kenya campaign will start in earnest on Sunday when they perform at the Kenya music festival in Nyeri. Vocalist, Rob Hodkidson said, 'We look forward to visiting Kenya as a great place for cultural tourism, gap destination and material culture. We have practiced and rehearsed our songs and now glad that we have today picked our visas.  The other vocals are include, Alice Williams, Nicole Sarah Gill, James Beard, Peter Hyams, Adam Biddlecombe and Jack Brewer." How well do you know Kenya is a project of the Maasai Cultural Art founded by Diana Badia and started three years ago as a new model of marketing Kenya.  According to Ms Badia; "It is an ambitious mega campaign project that aims to market Kenya cultural tourism, gap year and material culture. It involves young cultural ambassadors traveling from Kenya to the UK on a cultural tour to promote Kenya." During the visits, that will take two months, the groups have successfully partnered with British contemporary musicians. The vocals have successfully delivered unprecedented high quality popular Euro-Afro music. Some of the recorded videos are trending on the social media including https://www.youtube.com/ howwelldoyouknowkenya. The campaign aims to invite the world to visit Kenya's live culture, showcase Kenya's cultural diversity as a world's destination and to strategically put Kenya in the world map of culture, material and gap year tourism. While the group will perform at the iconic annual national music festival in Nyeri, they will also meet high ranking national ministries of Culture, Education and Tourism. ALSO READ:

Tanzanian tour operators lock horns with Kenyan counterparts over Mara , Serengeti access They will meet with permanent presidential music commission as well as Nairobi and Homa Bay counties. They hope to meet with the British High commissioner and the British Council. Ms Badia said that the Kenya national music festival is a great platform for the British vocals as it provides all the music genre across Kenya.  The festival attracts close to 1.7million people. With all the support and efforts into this maiden trip, Diana, said Kenya music festival is the pedestal for inviting the world to see her heritage. How else can you attract the attention of the tourist world without putting the best performances?