President Uhuru Kenyatta (right) is welcomed by the chairman commission for education and religious Paul Kariuki during the official opening of Catholic schools principals forum at Catholic university on 15/8/18-[Photo: Beverlyne Musili,Standard] President Uhuru Kenyatta has acted to avert a looming teachers' strike that would paralyse learning when schools open next month. ALSO READ:

Photos: Different faces of tired DP Ruto The President yesterday directed Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed to review a Teachers Service Commission policy guiding the ongoing mass transfer of teachers to protect families. “I am aware that delocalisation has created some unforeseen challenges that have affected some teachers,” said Uhuru. Speaking when he officially opened the Catholic School Principals Conference at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa, he said the Ministry of Education must review the policy by the end of this month. Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Secretary General Wilson Sossion welcomed the announcement but said the strike would go on until the Government made a formal communication. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “We respect what the President has said and we welcome it because he means well for teachers. But TSC has to make the communication to all teachers,” said Mr Sossion. Knut has threatened to rally all members to boycott work if TSC fails to withdraw its policies on transfers, promotions and training. The commission and Knut are scheduled to meet on August 21 to address the issues raised by the union. Nearly 1,000 school heads have been moved across the country in the ongoing transfers. Early this week, the Kenya Primary School Headteachers Association pleaded with TSC to consider the plight of the elderly, the sick and those approaching retirement. Meanwhile, TSC has moved its top directors in a major reshuffle meant to improve service delivery and efficiency. ALSO READ:

New police housing policy to be launched The Standard has established that about 10 counties have been affected in changes effected last week. Baringo Director Alex Cheruyiot has been moved to Bungoma and replaced with James Nyakweba. Tharaka Nithi Director Victoria Muoka has moves to Nyeri while Marsabit Director Elias Gitonga is now in Kwale, in a straight swap with Elijah Omwenga. Kiambu Director Lillian Wachira now moves to Nairobi, replacing Benard Kimandas who has been moved to Vihiga to replace retired John Odongo. Regina Opondo is the new Kiambu director while Murang'a Deputy Director Pauline Mukami has moved to Nyandarua as the new director. And Esther Musani, who was the deputy director in Kisumu, has gone to Turkana as the new director. The TSC Chief Executive Officer Nancy Macharia said the changes take effect immediately. ALSO READ:

TSC, KNUT fight over Sh5 billion 