  Noordin Mohamed Haji is shaping up as the magic bullet that Kenya needs to uproot the monster of corruption that has for years grown too fat and stretched its tentacles too far in the Government. His first five months in office have been a nightmare for Government officials, parastatal bosses, and now Judiciary staff suspected of dipping their hands in the till. ALSO READ:

DCJ Mwilu appears in court, freed on Sh5m bond He is the man to watch. Just hours after detectives picked up Garissa Governor Ali Korane over the attempted murder of a former finance executive in his county, other sleuths, also with his clearance, were headed to the country’s top court to make the biggest arrest so far. Mr Haji, like a notorious fly, has been sniffing around Government offices, following leads, and forwarding cases to court faster than any of his predecessors were able to do. Without causing a change in the country’s law or seeking a huge budget or employing foreign detectives, the soft spoken Haji is relying on the established criminal justice system to sniff out corruption suspects. His no-nonsense approach to swiftly order the arrest of top Government officials has given fresh hope to the country’s fight against corruption, which until recently had been seen as just another joke. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Alongside top crime buster George Kinoti, Haji has not only scared top Government officials but also frightened tenderprenuers as he unmasks more and more suspects in his corruption purge. The two have handed the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Director of Criminal Investigations, institutions that have previously taken too much from the public coffers, but delivered little to the taxpayer, a new lifeline. The writing is also on the wall for private individuals and companies that always went scot-free and left junior public officers, and the unsophisticated accounting officers, to carry the cross, at times for sins they never committed. Haji, the son of Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, has proved that he is his own man and that he has the rare courage to disrupt the status quo. ALSO READ:

We all need to remove the log from our eye The arrest of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu yesterday over alleged corruption is perhaps the boldest sign that the country has finally turned full circle. Embattled National Land Commission (NLC) Chairman Muhammad Swazuri, who at one point dared his accusers to face him, was recently picked up from the warmth of his home and charged. Kenya Railways' boss Atanas Maina is also fighting his own battles alongside Prof Swazuri and other NLC officials over alleged irregular land compensation.  Among Haji's first assignments was the arrest of 15 National Youth Service officials, among them its then director general, Richard Ndubai, after the institution was rocked by a second round of corruption. Former Youth Affairs permanent secretary Lilian Omollo also tasted Haji’s wrath. Haji also ordered the arrest of almost the entire Kenya Power management team.