 Standard Group journalists shone on Friday night scooping seven awards at the Annual Journalism Excellence Awards (AJEA) 2018 including the most coveted Journalism of the Year Award. The stars of the fete were KTN News Reporters Hussein Mohamed and Sharon Momanyi taking home both the Environmental Reporting Award and the Journalist of the Year Award for their story Coaled Case. The story offers an in depth critical look at the controversial 1,050MW coal power plant being built in Lamu County. KTN News reporter Agnes Penda and cameraman Johnson Langat won the Development Reporting Award. Penda also won the ICT Reporting Award. In the Radio category, Radio Maisha Editor Wellingtone Nyongesa won the Good Governance Reporting Award. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 In the Print category, writers for The Standard newspaper won the Business Reporting Award and the Sports Reporting Award. Patrick Alushula, who has since moved to another media house, won the Business Reporting Award for his story Why Kenyans’ love for quick riches is overshadowing normal investments published in the Financial Standard pullout. Vincent Achuka and Jonathan Komen won Sports Journalists of the Year with their story on the doping menace that has put Kenyan athletics on the spot. Veteran journalists Phillip Ochieng and Lucy Oriang were awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award to a standing ovation from the crowd. Other winners included KTN News Editor Odeo Sirari who won the Development Reporting Award for Radio at his previous posting in the BBC. Awards won by the Daily Nation included the Governance Reporting Award given to John Kamau, the Gender Reporting Award handed to Abiud Ochieng and the Environmental Reporting Award given to Elizabeth Merab. For the Health Reporting Award, Business Daily’s Sarah Ooko won the print category while the TV award was given to Africa Uncensored journalists Dennis Mbae, Sam Munia and Elijah Kanyi and the radio award given to Baraka FM’s Brian Osweta.  Speaking at the function the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi emphasised the importance of the media and vowed to defend media freedom. Muturi backtracked on earlier orders summoning two newspaper journalists to Parliament over a story that had portrayed MPs in bad light. These were the seventh edition of the awards since their establishment in 2012 with the Standard Group winning Journalist of the Year Award four times now.