 MOMBASA, KENYA: Kenya Bureau Standard KEBS Manager at Mombasa port Samuel Onjolo Omolo and his junior officer Daniel Musta Khamba have been banned from setting foot in Kilindini harbour after being charged with abuse of office for authorizing the release of 10,000 bags of contaminated sugar from the port. ALSO READ:

Traders clash with police on sugar haul Omolo and Khamba were barred from entering their offices at the port by Mombasa Resident Magistrate Christine Ogweno on a cash bail of Sh 500,000 each after their lawyer Leonard Shimaka successfully applied for it. They must also report to police after every fortnight. The magistrate released the accused on cash bail after rejecting state lawyer Mrs. Alice Mbeah who said the accused should not be given lenient terms of bond considering the charge they were facing . Shimaka pleaded with the magistrate to release Omolo and his co accused on cash bail of Sh 500,000 and review her earlier order that the accused persons be released on Sh 1 million cash bail. “Your honor I am applying to consider reviewing your earlier order that the accused persons be released on a cash bail of Sh 1 million as they cannot raise this amount today to get their freedom” said Shimaka. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Shimaka who teamed up with lawyer Jared Magolo pleaded that his client Omolo was just a civil servant who can only raise that money when he has taken a loan. Magolo caused laughter when he said that his client Ali Abdi has never come across Sh 1 million in his life because the highest amount of money he has seen is Sh 300,000 when he took a loan from his cooperative society. “Your honour, my client is a mere clerk in a clearing firm who has never come across Sh 1 million in cash. The biggest amount of money he has come across is sh 300,000 he took as a loan from his cooperative society” said Magolo The other accused are businessmen Hassan Abdi and Abdulahi Abdi Mohmed who were also released on a bond of Sh 500,000 after denying the charges.The other accused are Flora Bakers Company and Air Menzies International Company. ALSO READ:

Police join probe into sugar industry woes