 The facilities management field is a broad business category. The companies in this sector perform functions that integrate people, place and process within a built environment to improve the quality of life of people and the productivity of their businesses. The scope of services offered varies widely as the concept of specialised facilities management is still evolving, presenting an opportunity for entrepreneurs. Atlanta Wamahia is the founding director of Adroit Facilities Ltd (AFL), which specialises in the provision of facilities management services in Kenya. She shares her journey. What got you interested in this business? My passion for facilities management started while I was working as the general manager of Regus, which offers serviced office spaces, co-working spaces and meeting rooms. I was responsible for managing and running the firm’s facilities and generating new sales. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Clients who outgrew the space, however, found it difficult to get the same kind of services and fit in the market, and would constantly call me for advice. This is when I identified a gap in the market and decided to venture into it just over two years ago. What did this require in terms of capital? I started the company with around Sh1 million, which came from my savings and seed money from my co-director. Facilities management is a wide field, so what does your firm specialise in? At AFL, we offer services that include hospitality, housekeeping and office cleaning, fumigation and landscaping, building maintenance, administration support, managed office solutions and relocation. We contract suppliers, such as security and catering, on our clients’ behalf, enabling them to concentrate on their core business while we manage these service-level agreements. What does your team look like? We have an experienced management team of six who are young and dynamic. We also have more than 80 housekeeping staff, as well as a team of well-trained plumbers, electricians, woodwork artisans and painters. How do you manage this workforce with such a lean management team? We have a flat structure of management, which increases employees’ responsibilities and accountability. We’re also developing a software that will help us manage the workforce and clientelle. With it, our clients will be able to interact with AFL in real-time, thus enjoying faster response times and improved standards. Our clients include hotels and serviced apartments, industrial parks, commercial buildings and general offices. We have both a mix of multinational and local companies. What are some of the challenges associated with your line of business? It’s still a new profession in Kenya, which makes it difficult to pitch for business. We’ve also seen a general reluctance to outsource for some services or all facilities management services to one vendor, low margins and the lack of a consistent regulatory framework to govern and support the industry.