Kenya’s iconic Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) has been hit by financial impropriety that has seen it accumulate more than Sh500 million in debtsnow threatening to bring it down. The revered architectural marvel is starring at a myriad of fiscal missteps that has driven it’s financial health to the red. ALSO READ:

Kalonzo blames MPs for shooting down report on contraband sugar The convention centre is viciously fighting to ward off attempts by incensed firms who have moved to court to have its properties auctioned to offset debts dating back to 2015. Documents in our possession reveal that the firms are demanding more than Sh570 million of the Sh701 million in debt accrued from the World Trade Organisation meeting held at the centre in December 2015. Three weeks ago, KICC’s legal team went to court to block one of the companies from auctioning its property. Accrued interest Part of the clients and suppliers who have moved to court include Mo Sound, which is demanding Sh54.7 million plus interest. Another firm, Green Star, is asking for Sh60 million for supplying and setting up equipment during the WTO opening ceremony. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Yesterday, KICC Chief Executive Officer Nana Gecaga admitted that the building had not paid suppliers but blamed the delay on failure by the previous management to ensure there was proper documentation. “I have not refused to pay. I want to make the payments within the confines of the law. I have sought a legal opinion from the Attorney General and the Auditor General is also here to check on the books. We have the money, we are only waiting for direction from the government’s legal adviser,” said Ms Gecaga. But the management of the most recognisable building in Kenya is in the eye of the storm for blowing up Sh25 million allocated to host two American R&B groups, SWV and Backstreet Boyz, internal audit queries reveal. Minutes of a board meeting on August 4, 2016 reveal that Ms Gecaga convinced the board to sanction the expenditure of Sh15 million to host the two groups but ended up spending Sh10 million above what was allocated. It is understood that Gecaga persuaded the board that the centre would generate Sh45 million from the concert in line with the strategy to elevate KICC as premier conference and events centre in Africa. However, the Auditor General report indicates that not a single coin trickled down to KICC accounts despite the Sh25 million investment. ALSO READ:

Kenya arrests two top officials for suspected corruption “We have been on the first phase of marketing KICC as the destination of choice in Africa and globally. In this phase, we have invited several local and international artists to perform. Little at now is being generated, but we will achieve a lot in the next phase,” Gecega explained. Under the second phase, she said, the centre will not be using promoters and instead deal directly with the artists to maximise revenues. “I am committed to ensuring that KICC becomes a global destination. I took over when there was mismanagement of the building, but we are on the right path now,” she said. She says that for the SWV and Back Street Boyz concert, KICC paid Sh10 million for business class tickets, Sh2 million to Occasions Flowerbox Ltd for tickets, Sh7.4million to The Fully Focus Agency for agency fee, Sh2.1 million for dinner and about Sh4 million for tents and audio. From the event, KICC was to get 40 per cent of the proceeds, which the CEO had projected to be Sh45 million. Controversy also shrouds the procurement of Nimu Promoters who were set to meet the costs of the artists. KICC ended up paying the costs. KICC has been a buzz of activity with a plethora of concerts headlined by internationally acclaimed artists performing on its famed grounds. KICC has played host to other music events headlined by international musicians. But despite the well attended concerts, many of them sold out, the financial health of the centre is bleak, with revenues tottering on the red. ALSO READ:

Tobiko and EACC partner in graft war Dwindling fortunes In 2017, the KICC building earned Sh112 million in revenues, a Sh5 million drop from the Sh117 million it made in 2016. The dwindling fortunes are said to have dampened the morale and output of the staff who say the buiding is dogged by poor management. They point to a decision by the management to stop the tenancy of about 20 private tenants who have since gone to court. For the past one year, some of these tenants have not been paying rent. This and other unexplained cases like that of a catering firm, Street Bistro, that is operating at the premises without signed lease of agreement or any contractual terms, are said to have led to the dire financial situation. Among the other issues flagged by the Auditor General in his report is the ownership of vehicles bought by the centre but whose logbooks are under a mysterious company. The vehicles are valued at Sh20.9 million. Besides the music concerts, the conventions centre hosts numerous expos where countries display their exports. Countries that have held their expos at the KICC include China, Japan, Egypt and a host of Middle East nations. Its central location and vast grounds also attract corporates. Sunday Standard has also established that some of its senior managers do not meet the qualifications stipulated by the Ministry of Tourism, KICC’s parent ministry. Its Finance and Administration Director Gerald Kirimi is a holder of a bachelors degree and Certified Public Accounts (CPA) 6 contrary to the stipulated guidelines. An advert placed by the KICC as it sought to fill the position stipulated its minimum qualifications as an accountant with a masters degree. The qualification requirements were later whittled down to a  bachelors degree ostensibly to gift the incumbent the job. Further, it has emerged that Mr Kirimi did not proceed on compulsory leave to pave way for lifestyle audit as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. ALSO READ:

State’s renewed war on graft promising, deserves support 