A congregation is reeling in shock following a burglary incident at Emakuche Church of God in Lurambi sub-county. Thugs broke into the church Monday night leaving behind a trail of destruction.  They also made away with a Public Address system and a bible. ALSO READ:

Panga-wielding gang injures seven in long night of terror The attackers also demolished a section of a house used by priests on the church compound. “We learnt of the incident this morning and found almost everything missing on arrival,” said Lucia Omusula, a resident pastor. Some of the items reported to have been stolen include utensils, two microphones, an amplifier, two speakers and the bible. “We suspect they were on a mission to destroy, they seem not to have been in any hurry during the break-in and must have taken time rummaging through everything,” said the cleric. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The church is located barely 200 metres away from a police post situated at Emusala and at least 75 metres away from the area senior assistant chief residential home. Faithfuls and villagers are wondering why the attackers would target a church despite the presence of administration police in the area. “It is saddening that they had to raid the holy pulpit, stealing a bible is an abomination,” said Ms Omusula. The Standard found papers strewn all over the place with villagers watching in disbelief from a distance. ALSO READ:

County passes bill on formation of economic alliance Locals have urged the police to investigate the incident and bring the culprits to book. It is not the first time a church has been attacked in the county. Several similar cases have been reported in Malava, Khwisero, Lugari, Shinyalu and Matungu sub-counties. Last year January, unknown people burned down Lugari Anglican Church at night.  Area police boss Bernard Macharia said arsonists may have been behind the fire that destroyed property of unknown value. "The fire completely destroyed the pulpit, store and furniture whose exact value we are yet to establish," said Mr Macharia. The church administration estimated the value of destroyed property at Sh100, 000.  No suspect has been arrested to date.