Laikipia has become the first county to produce a statistical data abstract to provide key information on all sectors of the economy for the past four years. National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich said the Laikipia County Statistical Abstract 2018 would provide a benchmark for monitoring achievements made at the county level. ALSO READ:

Residents assured of security “Statistics are important in the design and implementation stages of both national and county policy frameworks,” said Mr Rotich in a speech read by Planning Principal Secretary Julius Muia. “This report is coming at the most opportune time as we roll out the Big Four agenda, among other development initiatives. The statistics contained in this report, therefore, forms a benchmark for monitoring achievements made at the county level,” he said. Laikipia partnered with Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) to produce the data set. The bureau's director general, Zachary Mwangi, asked other counties to emulate Laikipia.  Mr Mwangi also proposed the formation of statistical technical working groups in counties to work with KNBS to capture and regularly update data to ease decision-making. Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi said informed policy choices would now be made with the aim of achieving a Sh600 a day household income in the county. “You require accurate data in order to make informed policy choices, whether it’s about industrialisation, universal healthcare or improving agricultural productivity,” said the governor. Mr Muriithi said the document was one that every investor should be glad to have. ALSO READ:

Governor asks court to strike out appeal, uphold win “As an investor working in Laikipia or considering working in Laikipia, this is the document that you want to have because it informs you in great detail about all the sectors, including air transportation,” he said. He added that priority would be given to industry and innovation, tourism, agro-processing and improving youths' skills through vocational training. The booklet Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri said the booklet would help him identify areas that the ministry can partner with the county. Governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga) welcomed the document.