Kenya Airports Authority has said old power cable were to blame for the power blackout which affected flights in Kisumu International Airport on Saturday night. Some flights delayed for up to 12 hours as the airport management tried to return normalcy at the runway which was out of power. ALSO READ:

Kenya Power faces shaky times Lights at the runway went off shortly after 7 P.M, forcing the airport management to cancel all flights in and out of the airport until the situation was rectified. Enraged travelers said they were not properly informed about the cancellations, hence inconveniencing them. “My flight was to leave the airport at 7.45pm, then we were informed of slight delay and we were assured that we would leave before 9pm,” said Jacky Owala, who was travelling to Nairobi. She however said at 10pm, there was no clear information from both the airport and flight managements, resulting to chaotic confrontation with the airport security.  “After the lounge turned chaotic, that is when we were informed that we would travel the following morning as there was an issue with power at the runway,” she said, claiming that their efforts to get a place to sleep were fruitless after they were informed that the flight management could not be reached to address their grievances. “I was to connect to a flight to Mombasa, so I missed my flight, and had to spend extra cash on hotel, cab and meals. Those who had no money spent at the airport and had no cloths to change nor somewhere to shower,” she added. Yesterday, the flight left Kisumu at 7.45am, with Ms Owala saying she had to book a different flight from Nairobi to Mombasa. Angela Tilitei, the KAA Communication Director said some of the power cables at the runway had reached their lifetime, leading to the power surge. ALSO READ:

Lights off as top power men apply for bail She said the airport management adequately informed the airlines about the problem, advising them to suspend any takeoffs or landing. “Any equipment has a lifeline, and our cables too. So one of the cables had a shot which then affected the others leading to the blackout. Only the runway was affected,” said Tilitei. She however confirmed that operations were resumed after the repairs, assuring travelers that the issue would not repeat itself. “As we speak there are contractors on the ground overhauling the system to replace the old cables, hence there is no cause for alarm,” she said.