Two people died and eight others sustain serious injuries on Saturday at Mulot trading center after a Nissan Matatu ploughed into a group of traders. Witnesses said the Matatu had stopped to pick passengers when a tout took to the driving seat before causing the accident. ALSO READ:

Ministry to give full report on deadly accident today “The driver alighted as the conductor scouted for passengers at the busy roadside market. One tout took the driver’s seat but due to his inexperience ploughed into a group of traders conducting their business by the roadside,” one witness told the standard. The witnessed said the tout escaped the scene immediately he had caused the accident. Confirming the accident, Bomet OCPD Samson Rukunga said investigation into the incident had started. Rukunga said two people died on the spot while eight other were rushed to Longisa County Referral Hospital in serious condition.  “We have taken eight people in critical condition to the Longisa Hospital for treatment. But unfortunately two of the victims of the accident died on the spot,” said the OCPD. He said the driver of the matatu was being sought by police to face charges of causing death by dangerous driving. “Our officers have mounted a search for the driver who went underground the scene after causing the accident and we will charge him,” said the police boss. The OCPD expressed fear that the death toll of the accident may rise saying most of those rushed to hospital were in very critical condition. ALSO READ:

Mwingi accident could have been avoided “There is a likelihood that we may lose some of those who were injured because of the nature of the injuries they sustain. By the time they were being taken in they were in serious condition,” said the officer. The accident attracted furry from locals and leaders who want Mulot market moved away from the Narok-Bomet highway to avoid such incident. Bomet East MP Beatrice Kones who spoke after the incident said the county should move with speed to set up market stalls away from the road. Kones said many lives of traders were at risk from fast moving vehicles at the busy highway. “It is serious and our county should move with speed. We should not wait to see more being killed to take action. We should move these traders out of the roadside to a better place to secure their lives,” added Mrs Kones. The MP also called on the Kenya Highway authority to erect pumps at the section of the highway to check speeding vehicles. “As the county is working ton removing the traders from the highway pumps should be erected to stop vehicles being driven at high speed,” added the MP ALSO READ:

Death toll from Mwingi grisly accident rises to 10 