National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale (C). He has warned the Chief Kadhi Sheikh Ahmed Muhdhar against opposing government's declaration of public holiday. [File, Standard] National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has warned Chief Kadhi Sheikh Ahmed Muhdhar that his conduct will be reviewed after the latter opposed government's declaration of Tuesday as national holiday. ALSO READ:

MPs pass Serem's new job Sheikh Muhdhar criticised the government for declaring Tuesday (August 21) a national holiday to celebrate the Eid-al-Adha (culmination of pilgrimage to Mecca), arguing that the government's choice of day contradicted Koranic teachings. But Duale, who is also the Garissa Town MP, posted the threat on his Tweeter account. It reads:” We shall send a petition to the Judicial Service Commission to discuss the conduct of the Chief Kadhi for abuse of office in the discharge of his duties as provided for in article 170 of the constitution of Kenya 2010."   And now outspoken Nairobi lawyer Ahmednassir Abdullahi has thrown his weight behind Duale. He has tweeted: "I agree with you...the chief Khadi must be dismissed...either he is incompetent or plainly reckless..."  Duale posted that the opinion of the Chief Kadhi could be dangerous and polarising to Muslim believers. ALSO READ:

Court stops SRC from trimming JSC sittings "Chief Kadhi is out of order and should not fault Cabinet Secretary Matiang'i on Idd ul-Adha holiday date. This will divide Muslims," Duale writes. He adds that the mandate of the Chief Kadhi cannot spill over the confines of administering personal law amongst Muslims which includes disputes related to marriage, divorce, and inheritance. On Friday Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i gazetted August 21 as Eid-al-Adha public holiday. During the feast of Eid-al-Adha Muslims commemorate the day that Prophet Ibraheem (Abraham in the Bible agreed to sacrifice his son to God. Muslims are called upon to honour this day by helping the needy. ALSO READ:

Kuria bashes Duale over Serem remarks