Members of the civil society demonstrate in Nairobi over the rise of corruption cases in Kenya,they have called on the president to jail all the indivuduals involved in NYS and maize scandal in Kenya on 31/5/18-[Photo: Beverlyne Musili,Standard] American musician Kurt Cobain once said: “The duty of youth is to challenge corruption.” ALSO READ:

Manufacturers in push to ease tax on ethanol Cobain was an insightful musician who frequently pushed his fans to think for themselves and that if they wanted something changed; they had the power to do so. On another continent, speaking to another generation of youth, President Uhuru Kenyatta is sending a similar message to Kenyan youth that they can play a role in ending the cycle of corruption that has blighted our nation for far too many generations. Uhuru knows that our youth can be a catalyst for change because they have not necessarily imbibed the practices of the previous generation, and that those reaching maturity in the 21st century will not accept what perhaps their elders did, because they have the power to create more noise than in years gone by and their demand for transparency will not be quietened down. In his Madaraka Day speech, Uhuru exhorted us all. “Your providing information will be key to us nailing the perpetrators of corruption; your resolve to withdraw respect and deny and honour to those guilty will be the most powerful blow to preventing this vice.” Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Kenya’s youth This was a call to arms for a generation which is able to raise its voice, and we must meet this demand for a better future. Moreover, it is not just our duty; it is in our interests to fight back against corruption that is depriving us of many opportunities. One of the greatest scandals in recent years was one involving the National Youth Service (NYS), an institution meant to serve the interests and provide future prospects for us; Kenya’s youth. ALSO READ:

Ruto: This is our plan for youth In May, the new Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Hajji ordered the detention of the NYS Director General Richard Ndubai, while 40 civil servants and 14 private sector officials were charged. This is the second corruption scandal to hit NYS in the last three years.The corruption scandal, which was brought to light by suppliers who had not been paid, shed the spotlight on payments made for fake invoices and multiple payments. Some have suggested that potentially, billions of shillings were stolen or misappropriated over the years from the NYS. Money that was meant to train young people in life and business skills. It would have gone a long way in fixing Kenya’s high youth unemployment. Sadly, that noble idea was hijacked. This episode affects us perhaps more than any of the other scandals that the DPP is prosecuting or pursuing. Bright future This theft affects our future and our ability to receive training and find employment. Thousands, perhaps millions of young Kenyans who would otherwise have a bright future. It robs us of the efforts to make the NYS an organization that serves the youth. While corruption affects all Kenyans, those behind these scandals tried to literally steal our future and we should not have any of it. ALSO READ:

Steel makers not yet out of the woods These words should prompt us into action: “We must, with a sense of great urgency, destroy and eliminate corruption in our country before it fully destroys us and the future of our children.” We should become the battering ram in this war. Obviously, not in a violent or aggressive way, but we should become the willing foot soldiers who will watch and keep track of everything around us and sound the alarm when we see injustice and wrong. We have the power to end corruption by not just rejecting it, but by becoming an active force and voice in its dismantlement. We have yet to become a part of a system which merely accepts graft and corruption, so we should not be prepared to consent to even a wastage of one shilling. We must not learn to turn our heads and look the other way, or say there is nothing that can be done. We are aware of our duty, and for the sake of all who came before and will come after, we dare not ignore these prescient words. Mr Hantman is a Strategy Advisor 