An Italian investor was yesterday charged in a Malindi court with fraud. The Italian joins a former ward representative who is facing similar charges on Monday over the same property. ALSO READ:

Kidero's Sh213 million fraud case at City Hall Ruggerro Sciommeri is accused, jointly with others, of conspiring to defraud four apartments known as E1, E2, E12 and E18, and bank premises all valued at approximately Sh25 million, from Moorgate Investments Ltd. According to the charges, the offence was committed at Blue Marlin Resort in Malindi town on October 16, 2015. Four counts Sciommeri faces four counts of fraud and forgery. He is accused of forging a transfer of a sub-lease for the four apartments and the bank premises, purporting it to be a genuine.  The Italian is also accused of presenting a false document at the Mombasa lands office for sub-lease of the apartments. He denied obtaining registration for plot number Portion 603 - Malindi Title number L. T41, Folio 60, File 11222 by false pretence. The complainants in the case are Giancarlo Ernest Bottini, Bottini Matteo and Monica Wamboi Karanja. Sciommeri denied all the charges before Malindi Chief Magistrate Julie Oseko and was released on a cash bail of Sh500,000 with an alternative bond term of Sh800,000 with a similar surety. ALSO READ:

Graft purge focus shifts to Milimani court deals Hearing of the case is slated for November 22. On Monday, a vocal politician from the county was charged with fraud relating to the same property. Ibrahim Abdi Athman alias Ibrahim Matumbo, who is a former MCA for Watamu ward, denied charges of conspiring to defraud the four apartments-E1, E2, E12, E 18 and the bank premises from Moorgate Investments Ltd. The politician faces eight counts of fraud and forging a transfer of sub-lease for the properties. He is accused of presenting a false document at the Mombasa lands office for sub-leasing of the apartments to the land registrar and obtaining registration of the plot by false pretence. Denied charges Mr Matumbo also denied stealing Sh5 million from Diamond Trust Bank Kenya Ltd Malindi branch, from an account belonging to Moorgate Investments Ltd. ALSO READ:

Doctor in trouble over bad surgery on rape victim He denied charges of stealing Sh7, 950,000 and Sh7 million from the same account in October and November 2015. The former ward rep also denied charges of stealing Sh45, 000 from the same account in November 2015. Matumbo was released on a cash bail of Sh500, 000 with an alternative bond of Sh800,000 with a similar surety. Hearing was also slated for November 22.