There was heightened political activity at the Coast this weekend where supremacy battles between various factions played out. Kilifi County Governor Amason Kingi yesterday hosted 21 MPs at Sun N Sun Hotel in Kilifi, who demanded to know how they too could benefit from the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. ALSO READ:

Raila: Why I don’t want to talk about Miguna Miguna The meeting came at a time the region has witnessed renewed political activity and shift of political alliances and after President Kenyatta relocated his operations there where he has held meetings with Raila, while the Deputy Present William Ruto was operating from upcountry. There was talk that MPs from all the six counties of the Coast were mooting formation of a national party in what signals new political realignment ahead of 2022. Those who attended the meeting include Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), William Kamoti (Rabai), Ruweda Obo (Lamu woman rep), Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Paul Katana (Kaloleni), Shariff Ali (Lamu East) and Said Haba (Galole). Others were Ali Wario (Garsen), Getrud Mbeyu (Kilifi woman rep), Ali Wario (Bura), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), Jones Mwololo (Voi), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), Danson Mwashako (Wundanyi), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Owen Baya (Kilifi North) and  Michael Kingi (Magarini). Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The region has 31 MPs. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho did not attend the meeting but sent apologies as he is said to be in Spain. Kingi said Coast leaders were closely monitoring ODM threats against Suleiman Dori (Msambeni) and Aisha Jumwa (Malindi). “The threats to discipline Dori and Jumwa goes against handshake spirit,” he said. ALSO READ:

Uhuru, Raila parties don’t inspire hope Kingi also said the meeting called for implementation of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) in the spirit of the handshake if Kenya is committed to ending historical land injustices. The leaders also announced they had agreed to revive the Jumuiya ya Kaunti za Pwani as part of the development agenda. Kingi and Joho, once close political allies, have since broken ranks. While Joho enthusiastically endorsed and has embraced the political handshake between Uhuru and Raila, Kingi has been reluctant to join the bandwagon. Ruto axis “Joho and Governor Amason Kingi (Kilifi) should stick together or else we will be exposed to political opportunism by outsiders,” said lawyer Gunga Mwinga, a former Kaloleni MP. Mwinga said Kingi appears to lean towards the Ruto axis and Joho towards Uhuru/Moi team which he claimed was a signal that neither of the two governors wants to play second fiddle to another. “Coast MPs have become low hanging fruits. Those who have moved to Ruto camp should explain to the region what is their space there,” said the former MP. ALSO READ:

Inside ODM's Migori campaign machine against Obado Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said Joho and Kingi should ring-fence Coast vote base. Any leader seeking the Coast support should talk to our leaders Joho and Kingi. We will not just jump to other people’s bandwagon blindly,” said Mishi. 