Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho with his CEC Finance Maryam Abdullahi when they appeared before the Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee on audit quieies at Parliament on Tuesday 07/08/18. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] Members of the County Assembly are divided over an invitation to meet Governor Hassan Joho tomorrow. ALSO READ:

Help at last for poor varsity dropout Mr Joho’s invitation was communicated through County Assembly Leader of Majority Jason Tuja. While most of the ward reps have confirmed that they will be meeting Joho, others were still undecided by yesterday. “I do not think I will attend the meeting because there is no invitation. We have just been told verbally to meet the governor,” said Marunga MCA Paul Kang’ethe. Others demanded to know the agenda of the meeting before making the trip to Mombasa County.  “There is need to get proper information and an agenda of the proposed meeting,” said Bura ward rep Patel Mngiambwa. Ngolia MCA Jones Mganga said he would attend the meeting although there was no official invitation. Party issues “It is not about party issues but unity of the region’s leaders,” he said. ALSO READ:

Joho proposes Sh100-a-tonne import charge Leader of Minority Ronald Sagurani confirmed he would attend the meeting. “President Uhuru Kenyatta's handshake with Raila Odinga has neutralised everything," said the Jubilee Party ward rep. Joho's invitation did not offer details on the meeting's agenda. According to the majority leader, the governor wants a "consultative meeting" with the ward reps. He said details of the meeting would be given later. Speaking to The Standard at the county assembly chambers in Wundanyi town yesterday, Mr Tuja said the majority of ward reps were enthusiastic about the meeting. Recently, the ward reps officially adopted the unity pact between Uhuru and Raila in a private motion tabled by Tuja, saying it marked the end of divisive, hateful and tribal politics ALSO READ:

Ward reps demand list of staff in bias dispute