NASA leader Raila Odinga has said that he is ready to extend the handshake gesture and close ranks with Deputy President William Ruto. Speaking at Kapsogeruk village in Bureti Constituency during the burial service of the late Eng.  Joseph Chepkowny, the former Prime Minister (PM) said his journey to unite Kenyans and all leaders will leave no one out. ALSO READ:

New group forced to check on the handshake task force “I have been building bridges with all the presidents Kenya has ever had starting with retired President Daniel Arap Moi, Mwai Kibaki as well as the current Head of State Uhuru Kenyatta, I am determined to close ranks with every one including deputy President William Ruto,” he said. He elaborated that the building of bridges will help solve Kenyans social, economic and political aspects. “This is the reason, President Uhuru Kenyatta and I don’t want to discriminate anyone. There is no one who we will leave out in the handshake move,” said Raila. The former Prime Minister who was accompanied by MPs Gladys Wanga and Timothy Bosire at the same time threw his weight behind President Kenyatta purge on corruption. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) leader advised members of the Kalenjin community against viewing the action through ethnic lenses. “Don’t rush to defend anyone accused of corruption before the individual is prosecuted and the courts determine whether the person is guilty or not. Keep in mind that whenever the person was stealing, he or she did not steal with you or on your behalf,” he said. The NASA leader who also delved in the Mau eviction saga called for the resettlement of land owners whose piece of land don’t touch on the cutline. “For those who crossed the cutline, the blame lies with those who sold them the pieces of land and they must be taken to account,” he said. ALSO READ:

Photos: Different faces of tired DP Ruto The former PM nonetheless trained his guns at senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen for attempting to drag his name (Raila) to the current Mau forests evictions. “He went there to try to whip emotions by trying to mudsling me over the current forest evictions but who doesn’t know that I am no longer a Prime Minister and the evictions are being done by other people now in government,” he said.  