NLC vice chairperson Abigael Mbagaya Mukolwe responds to questions raised by participants during State House Land Summit at State House, Nairobi on Monday 14/11/16. [PHOTO:BONIFACE OKENDO] The National Land Commission (NLC) will hold a public inquiry over the properties located at the disputed Kibarani dumpsite. ALSO READ:

Swazuri, Atanas deny corruption charges In a newspaper advertisement yesterday, NLC acting chairperson Abigael Mbagaya said public hearings on the matter would be held at Kenya School of Government, Mombasa, from August 22 to August 24 this year. “All interested parties are invited to present letter of offer/allotment, receipts of payment for allocation, part development plans, deed plans, title deeds, leases and any other relevant documents of ownership,”said Ms Mbagaya. NLC further listed various owners of properties in Kibarani and the acreage that they hold. They include Ancient Inland Seas Limited on plot number MN/V/2079 of 0.4274 hectares. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Rashid Sajjad Former powerful assistant minister Rashid Sajjad was listed as having plots MN/V/724 measuring 1.011 hectares and MN/V/1074 measuring 0.399 hectares. Other beneficiaries listed included M Tech Building Works, Multiple ICD, Makupa Transit, Talib Bulk Oil Terminal, Wedam Limited, Garissa Holdings, Roosevelt Limited, Kenya Railways Corporation, Kenya Meat Commission and V Naram Mulji Properties. The list of beneficiaries also has Kenya Ports Authority, Mitchell Cotts Kenya Limited, Esmail Ibrahim, Belport, Haji Ahmed Adam, Anveral Mohamed Sidiq, Tiba Freight Forwaders, Civicon Limited, Ismael Ibrahim Alias, Abdi Elmi Ali and Osman Farah Mohamed, Gapco Kenya Limited, Matt International Limited. ALSO READ:

Questions abound on NLC boss role in Sh3.3b Ruaraka land saga Also listed in the NLC notice are fish landing sites on plots numbers MSA/BLKXLV II/147 and MSA BLK XLVII/68 which are properties of the Kenya Government, MSA BLK XLVI /69, MSA BLK XLVII/74 and MSA /BLK XLVII/174 belonging to Kenya Railways where fish processor Wananch Marine is listed as interested party. Private developers Another parcel on plot number MSA/BLK.XLVII/147 belonging to Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife currently houses the Liwatoni Jetty. Last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta asked NLC to revoke the allocation of a dumpsite land to private developers. Uhuru said the 80-acre Kibarani dumpsite, which is under reclamation, will be decommissioned and recreational facilities put up there.  ALSO READ:

Chairman’s gusto turned agency into theatre of absurd