Peace, not the economy, is the reason a majority of Kenyans support the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. But a good number of citizens feel the ‘grand handshake’ will do little or nothing to save the country from corruption, according to the latest poll by Infotrak. ALSO READ:

Vision finally combines with resolute action to combat corruption The purge on corrupt individuals received a good backing at 94 per cent, while demolitions got 64 per cent support. According to the new findings released by Infotrak in partnership with Africa Centre for Open Governance (Africog) on Sunday, 85 per cent of Kenyans are in support of the handshake for peace, while 13 per cent support it for good business environment. Only one per cent of those polled feel the handshake will bring about inclusive leadership and solve tribalism. “The main issue here is peace. That people can co-exist means that the country is heading in the right direction,” said Infotrak’s boss Angela Ambitho (right). Not genuine Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. There is, however, a group of Kenyans who feel the handshake is insignificant. According to the poll, 46 per cent of Kenyans who do not support the handshake described it as "not genuine'. Some 34 per cent said it was created for selfish interest of the two leaders while 19 per cent confirmed the fears of dying opposition. ALSO READ:

Poll: Kenyans split on direction country is headed About 45 per cent of Kenyans believe the handshake will have no impact in the fight against corruption while 32 per cent have a contrary opinion. Some 35 per cent expect no change in police reforms, which was noted as significantly high, and 31 per cent also do not expect any change in electoral reforms. Fifty three per cent want the electoral commission disbanded. The Director of Public Prosecutions office is the most trusted institution. The survey was carried out between August 20 and 23, 2018. A sample of 1,538 was interviewed covering 26 counties. 