Leaders in Western region want Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi to work with his National Super Alliance (NASA) co-leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. on Sunday Senators George Khaniri (Vihiga) and Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), Hamisi MP Charles Gimose, Orange Democratic Movement party Secretary General Edwin Sifuna, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi and Banja MCA Collins Ayugu said the gesture by Mr Mudavadi and Kalonzo in revealing why they skipped Raila’s 'swearing-in' had vindicated them. ALSO READ:

Mudavadi: Why I will not support Uhuru soon at a Church harambee in Hmamisi Constituency,  they noted that the only person still living in denial of the handshake era was Ford Kenya party leader and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula. “Raila has worked with Mudavadi in previous years despite him straying away from him. In 2002, Mudavadi went away from Raila but he was reunited with him. In 2013, again Mudavadi went his way from Raila, but later worked with him in 2017. He skipped the swearing-in, but he has vindicated himself. The door is still wide open for him in NASA,” Mr Osotsi said. Funds drive The leaders spoke at a funds drive at Madeya PAG Church in Hamisi constituency on Sunday. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Elsewhere, Mr Khaniri said NASA had begun a journey of redeeming the country from many ills hence the leaders should stick together to the end. In an interview with a local newspaper, Mudavadi revealed the circumstances that led to his missing the January 30 'swearing-in' ceremony in Nairobi. “If you have a child who is continually making mistakes, you forgive him, but he must take responsibility. On behalf of ODM, we no longer have a quarrel with Mudavadi because of the truth that he has spoken,” said Mr Sifuna. Mr Malala said some leaders who complained about Raila's handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9 had never awoken from their slumber. ALSO READ:

CS in shouting match with MP over Raila remark