  In a bid to achieve set targets in the Universal health coverage plan of ensuring every Kenyan has access to affordable medical cover, NHIF has reached out to various stakeholders including the Former Parliamentarians association (FOPA) which is fulfilling its obligation in the implementation of a Comprehensive Medical Insurance Cover for its members. Speaking on Wednesday 22nd August 2018 at Safari Park Hotel in Nairobi during the conference of former parliamentarians, NHIF CEO Geoffrey Mwangi said the agreement between NHIF and FOPA Association has seen former Senators, Women Representatives, Members of Parliament covered up to the tune of Sh7.5 million and Sh300, 000 for in-patient and out-patient services respectively since January 2018. ALSO READ:

Ngilu set to launch healthcare initiative On its part, the Fund has rolled out the enhanced package to FOPA association through scheme member registration so as to have complete data for ease of identification at the point of service. NHIF strives to continuously engage with stakeholders through public education with FOPA Association Kenya members whilst undergoing a series of sensitization programs on the NHIF benefit packages and how to access and enjoy benefits in the offing. The enhanced package custom made for FOPA ensures that NHIF covers principal members on family shared basis covering the principal member and the dependents.  The eligible beneficiaries are members of FOPA Association Kenya, a spouse declared by the principal member and the children to 21 years of age and/or to 25 years if in full time formal education. For the premium charged, the members are now accessing an enhanced benefit package that includes; inpatient services, outpatient services, local ambulance services, emergency air rescue, laboratory and X-ray services, optical cover, maternity cover, dental cover, substance abuse and rehabilitation, diabetes, renal dialysis, cancer treatment and last expense and group life cover. To date, NHIF key achievements include the expanded benefits package tailor made to meet member’s needs; biometric registration, electronic claims processing, implementation of Linda Mama for expectant mothers, launch of the customer relationship management system; the introduction of community health workers to reach grass root communities; increased networks across the country to the satisfaction of stakeholders among many others. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Further, to increase accessibility to services, NHIF has up to date accredited 7,800 facilities with 67% of these being government hospitals, 21% private and 4% mission hospitals. To achieve Universal health coverage, the Fund promises a cover that is family based with no screening on pre-existing conditions upon registration.