 Apple could be preparing to unveil a pair of Augmented Reality (AR) specs as early as 2020, according to a well-respected analyst. ALSO READ:

Exploding' iPad prompts Apple shop evacuation Ming-Chi Kuo, who has a strong track record on predicting Apple's future plans, also claims that an Apple Car could launch in 2023. In a TF Securities research note obtained by Business Insider, Kuo predicts that AR will be the next big game-changing interface for Apple, just as the multi touch screen was when it landed on the iPhone. "We expect Apple will redefine the UIs of existing products by offering an AR experience created by the AR glass, which will likely be launched in 2020," said Kuo. AR involves overlaying computer graphics on top of a real-world view, with the best-known example being the mobile game Pokemon Go. Apple has already made moves into AR with its ARKit developer kit, which enables companies to make AR-based games and apps for the iPhone. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Following a muted response to the Google Glass smart specs, which were finally released after a long wait in 2013, it has long been speculated that Apple would introduce its own pair of techie goggles. In 2017, Apple was reportedly working on a pair AR glasses with the famous German lens firm Carl Zeiss, according to well-known tech blogger Robert Scoble. As well as potentially launching a set of AR glasses in 2020, Kuo predicts that an Apple Car could launch sometime between 2023 and 2025. ALSO READ:

Google changes web offering for Africa Apple's car division is known as Project Titan and while details are thin on the ground, the Cupertino tech firm is said to be testing autonomous cars on the streets of California. In July, Kuo predicted that Apple will unveil six new products before the end of the year. He claimed that these will include a trio of iPhones, a new Apple Watch, a new MacBook Air and a new iPad Pro model with the same all-screen design as the iPhone X with no home button.