Matters nutrition took centre stage at the ongoing Kenyan Music Festival in Nyeri. Uthiru Genesis School led pupils in pushing this message in their verse M.V Narisha. ALSO READ:

Pupils remember August 7 bombing at music fete The verse depicts children on a Monday morning faced with untold hunger, but who must prepare to attend classes. “Minus a meal though the teachers strain, this brain cannot retain what the teachers train,” goes part of the verse. In synchronised voices, persuasive facial expressions and sheer harmony, the pupils won a standing ovation at the end of the performance. And for that, Uthiru Genesis scooped top position followed by Harambee Primary School and KBA School who tied in second position.  Kiswahili winners The theme was expounded in both English and Kiswahili with Kiswahili winners being Makini School, Busibudu School taking position two and Koma Hill School in position three. “We are satisfied the quality of performance as the children exhibited energy and enthusiasm in performance,” said Annie Mwaura, the Equitorial Nut Company Marketing Manager who sponsored the category. The event was organised under strict terms for the student. For example, they were not allowed to use mobile phones. Those found with phones had them confiscated. Yesterday some students from a Coastal school found it rough when they were caught using mobile phones. The venue had eating tents provided by private catering service providers and the cold Nyeri weather necessitated warming of food for participants. Booming business Since the start of the fete, business in Nyeri has been booming with many hotels reporting full bookings. According to the KMF National Chairman Peter Wanjohi, the festival has so far run smoothly and he praised the local hosting committee for a job well done. “As you can see, the festival is growing in strength and from what I see, quality of performances is also improving, a sign that many of the initiatives we have made including training more teachers and adjudicators is bearing fruit,” he said as he welcomed secondary school teams for the second and final phase of the festival that will close on August 18. The winners will be hosted by President Uhuru Kenyatta at Sagana State Lodge this Saturday.