Acting Lands Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i (left) confers with Lands Commission chairman Dr. Moahammed Swazuri (centre) and Mombasa County Commissioner Nelson Marwa (right) during a leaders meeting over the Waitiki land dispute at the Likoni CDF offices in Mombasa County, November 25, 2015. [PHOTO BY GIDEON MAUNDU/STANDARD]. Senate Parliamentary Accounts Committee has recommended investigations against various persons suspected to have played roles that led to the Sh1.5bn payout in Ruaraka land scandal. ALSO READ:

Industrialization PS tours industrial Area The report has endorsed a probe against Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiangi, National Land Commission board chair Mohammed Swazuri, Education PS Belio Kipsang, and the Director of Valuation and Taxation Salome Munubi for their roles in the Ruaraka land issue. Dr Matiangí and PS Kipsang are faulted for flouting article 226 (5) of the Constitution, where the duo defied recommendations of a report of the Quality Assurance and Standards Assessment which revealed that the land was public property. Swazuri and other officials from the NLC have been accused of causing the loss of Sh1.5bn public funds, going contrary to the principles of public finance and standing in the transaction that led to acquisition of land for Drive-In Primary School and Ruaraka High School. Munubi on the other hand has been accused of giving false information to the NLC on the statutory disturbance allowance that was to be paid for the land, as per Land Acquisition Act Cap 295.  The PAC report has provided various recommendations on how the 13.5 acres of land under dispute ought to be handled. The land, registered with LR No 7879/4, and claimed by Whispering Palms LT, Afrison Export and Import Ltd and Huelands Ltd has been in dispute.  The claimants are accused of acquiring public the money fraudulently. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed and National Land Commission Mohammed Swazuri have traded blames over the matter; with each of them trying exonerate themselves over the mess. Amina held that the land was public property while the NLC boss holds that it was private property, hence the payout for its acquisition. ALSO READ:

Kisumu signs pact with PharmAccess to digitize health