Young initiates undergoes circumcision rite at Kamasielo village, Mt. Elgon in Bungoma County on August 1, 2016. [Photo: BENJAMIN SAKWA/STANDARD] Hundreds of teenage boys across Western region are gearing up for the circumcision season that starts today. ALSO READ:

China's African ties unsettling the West At least 10,000 boys will face the knife, in elaborate ceremonies that mark transition from childhood to adulthood. Youth between 13 and 18 years will undergo the rite of passage in line with Bukusu traditions. Those to be circumcised are from Bungoma, Trans Nzoia and Kakamega counties. Mr Makokha Wanyama, chairman of Bukusu traditional surgeons, said his peers and initiates were well prepared for the exercise.  In an interview with The Standard yesterday, Isaac Misiko, 65, noted that for the past two weeks, more than 500 traditional surgeons had converged at a shrine to appease the gods and perform rituals known as ‘Chingembe’ ahead of today’s exercise. A traditional circumciser (Omukhebi) is believed to have inborn talent. They believe one's prowess in circumcising is bestowed upon them by some powerful magical powers called “kumusambwa.” All traditional surgeons are expected to meet at night to sharpen their knives and subsequently bless them in a ceremony known as ‘khubita chingembe’. Local brew ALSO READ:

Wildebeest migration kicks off in the Mara Misiko said traditional surgeons then take local brew (kamalwa), slaughter a red cock and smear its blood on the knives as a sign that they are ready to undertake the rite. Mr Martin Wanyonyi, a Bukusu elder from Cheptais location, said a candidate must first show interest in facing the knife and before informing his father. The father will then ask his son to step on a hot piece of charcoal to test his courage and then give him a cockerel to take to the blacksmith in exchange of bells called ‘chinyimba’. “After acquiring the bells, initiates meet at night to rehearse for the ceremony... The rehearsal is done until the elders are convinced that the initiates are ready to face the knife,” said Wanyonyi. Elders, relatives and those to be circumcised eat roasted meat and take busaa, a traditional brew, the whole night preceding the circumcision. According to Wanyonyi, the first boy will face the knife today at 6am. The initiate will first be taken to the river at 5am to be smeared with cold mud all over his body so as to numb him. This is done to prevent excessive bleeding after circumcision. Initiates who don’t cry during the cut, often done within the homestead, are celebrated by receiving gifts from relatives. ALSO READ:

Chandaria Industries to help Korean start-ups enter Africa Tradition also dictates that children born out of wedlock be circumcised at the back of the homestead so that they don’t go away with the blessings of children that are 'legally' born in the home. Declared warriors According to Bukusu traditions, a circumciser must be over 30, married and have a male child as their first born. Circumcision should not take more than 30 seconds. After initiation, the initiates commonly referred to as “bafulu” wait until December to be pronounced as warriors. After being declared warriors, they will now have the right to marry, especially those who have attained 18 years and above. 