NASA leader Raila Odinga Friday has said Kenya was on the path to political and economic stability after his March 9 handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking at Murang’a University of Technology where he received a heroic welcome, the Opposition chief named ethnicity, poorly managed elections and corruption as some of Kenya’s biggest threats. ALSO READ:

REVEALED: How MPs were swayed to shoot down report “We need to save Kenya from being defined as corrupt, violent and facing other evils. A lot of energies should be directed towards eradicating these vices,” he said. He said it was unfortunate the country was on a perpetual campaign mode, a situation he noted causes destruction to property and forces businesses to close. Raila was the chief guest during the university’s second graduation ceremony where 400 students were conferred degrees. At the same ceremony, former multi-party crusader Charles Rubia was awarded a honourary doctorate degree in recognition of his push for multi-party democracy.  Great sons “He is indeed one of Kenya’s great sons and this recognition today is timely and well deserved. Rubia teamed up with other leaders to help the country attain multi-party democracy despite intimidation meted out by the government,” Raila said. Rubia was the first African Mayor of Nairobi and was a steadfast agitator for multi-party democracy. Raila also paid tribute to the late Kenneth Matiba for his dedication in the fight for democratic space now enjoyed by Kenyans. ALSO READ:

Changing public, political culture to aid war on graft “The University Council should should consider renaming the institution after Matiba. Matiba sacrificed for his country, I propose that the institution be named after him,” he said. Vice Chancellor Dickson Nyariki said they were projecting that the student population will grow to 4,000 next month. The institution has 3,200 students. “The Senate has approved 40 additional programmes which will be started systematically as we expand the facilities,” he said. Governor Mwangi wa Iria challenged the institution to launch health science and agriculture departments to partner with the Murang’a County Government. bgikandi@standardmedia.co.ke