 A congregation is reeling in shock following a burglary incident at Emakuche church of God in Lurambi sub-county. ALSO READ:

Locals protest over student's murder Thugs broke into the church Monday night leaving behind a trail of destruction.  They also made away with a Public Address system and a holy bible. The attackers also demolished a section of a house used by priests on the church compound. “We learnt of the incident this morning and found almost everything missing on arrival,” said Lucia Omusula, a resident pastor. She said, those behind it must have been a group going by the degree of destruction witnessed. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Some of the items reported to have been stolen include utensils, two microphones, an amplifier, two speakers and the bible. “We suspect they were on a mission to destroy, they seem not to have been in any hurry during the break-in and must have taken time rummaging through everything,” said the cleric. The church is located barely 200 metres away from a police post situated at Emusala and at least 75 metres away from the area senior assistant chief residential home. Faithfuls and villagers are wondering why the attackers would target a church despite the presence of administration police in the area. ALSO READ:

How I used to ferry guns for killer gangs in Nairobi “It is saddening that they had to raid the holy pulpit, stealing a bible is an abomination,” said Ms Omusula. The Standard found papers strewn all over the place with villagers watching in disbelief from a distance. Locals have urged the police to investigate the incident and bring the culprits to book. It is not the first time a church has been attacked in the county. Several similar cases have been reported in Malava, Khwisero, Lugari, Shinyalu and Matungu sub-counties. Last year January, unknown people burned down Lugari Anglican Church at night.  Area police boss Bernard Macharia said arsonists may have been behind the fire that destroyed property of unknown value. "The fire completely destroyed the pulpit, store and furniture whose exact value we are yet to establish," said Mr Macharia. The church administration estimated the value of destroyed property at Sh100,000.  No suspect has been arrested to date. ALSO READ:

Murang'a man kills son over food Preliminary investigations had indicated that arsonists gained access to the church using master keys before setting it on fire and then locking the doors, which we found intact." Other than targeting churches, cases of arsonist setting ablaze houses have been reported in the county. In November last year, Said Sakani a local resident, narrowly escaped death when the house he was sleeping in was set ablaze by unknown people. The attackers locked Mr Sakani inside the house before setting it on fire. The police are yet to arrest anyone in relation to that incident.