Most parts of the country are set for a sunny August as Nairobi continues to record cool and cloudy weather for most of the month. The Met office also warned of the impact foggy conditions would have on air transport at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) during landing and take-off. ALSO READ:

MET: Rains to continue for the next five days Last week, several flights at JKIA were diverted due to poor visibility caused by fogginess. “On average, most parts of the country experience generally sunny and dry weather conditions during the month of August. The western highlands, however, continue to experience significant rainfall amounts for most of the month while the central regions experience cool and cloudy conditions,” said Stella Aura, Acting Director of Meteorological Services. Motorists were asked to be cautious owing to poor visibility along roads such as Limuru, Nakuru, Eldoret and also in parts of central highlands, Nairobi and parts of the Rift Valley. Aura asked for monitoring of Northern Kenya and the Southeastern lowlands as sunny and dry conditions would continue leading to diminished pasture for livestock.  However, some counties might receive “near normal rainfall” that might intensify. The counties include Kitale, Kericho, Nandi, Eldoret, Kakamega, Kisumu, Kisii, Busia and Nakuru, Nyahururu and the Aberdares region. Aura said that the rainfall would boost crop performance hence improving food security in the country. Counties that will experience “occasional” cool and cloudy conditions include Nyeri, Muranga, Kiambu, Embu, Meru and Nairobi area (Dagoretti, Kabete, Wilson, Eastleigh, Ngong). ALSO READ:

Brace yourself for dry spell However, sunny weather might prevail during the second half of the month with temperatures likely to surpass the previous month. At the coastal strip, dry weather is expected accompanied by light morning showers, occasionally. The counties include Lamu, Malindi, Msabaha, Mombasa, Mtwapa and Kilifi. Sunny and dry conditions during the whole month are expected in counties in the the Northwestern Regions (Lodwar, Lokichoggio, Lokitaung), Northeastern Kenya(Marsabit, Garbatulla, Wajir, Mandera, Moyale), Southeastern Kenya (Machakos, Makindu,Voi) and parts of central and south Rift Valley (Narok, Magadi, Kajiado). However, thunderstorms might occur over the northwestern areas bordering Uganda and Sudan. Areas such as Garissa, Mandera, Moyale and Wajir are expected to encounter strong southerly winds resulting in dust that residents have been cautioned against. ALSO READ:

Weatherman: Brace for the cold season