Kisumu governor Anyang' Nyongo with Nyeri deputy governor Caroline Karugu while laying a foundation for the rehabilitation and extension of the Kisumu Social hall on August 14th 2018.  [Photo: Collins Oduor, Standard] Kisumu Girls’ and Kisumu Boys’ High schools, some of Nyanza region's notable learning institutions, could be moved out of the town centre. ALSO READ:

Giant snake returns to Nyanza Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o yesterday announced that an ongoing geo-mapping of the lakeside city had identified a number of changes the city requires to achieve economic strength. According to Prof Nyong’o, once the plan is complete, radical changes will to be made in the city in accordance with the new zoning. He however said proper channels would be followed before the two schools were moved out of the town and the land they sit on turned into a commercial centre. Kisumu Girls, a national school, has more than 1,500 students while Kisumu Boys is an extra-county school with an equal number of students. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “A city is commercial oriented. Even though a school provides social services, it gives the city very little returns, hence can be moved to cheaper land outside the CBD so long as there are proper roads,” said Nyong’o. He said the move would be good for the schools as they would have a more conducive learning environment, away from the noisy town centre. The two schools sit on a combined 20 acres along the Kisumu-Kakamega highway. Also targeted for renovation are the Kisumu Agricultural showground and Moi Stadium. Nyong’o made the remarks when he launched the renovation of Kisumu Social Hall. The upgrade was funded by French Development Agency through the Kisumu Urban Project at a cost of Sh70 million. ALSO READ:

Students to face full trial for unrest Boost capacity The upgrade will boost capacity of the hall, which was built in the 1930s. A fence, cafeteria, two bars and an ablution blocks will also be built. A 100-metre bitumen access road will be built to connect the facility to the main bus terminus and neighbouring residential areas. The governor was accompanied by Nyeri Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu, Kisumu City Manager Doris Ombara and City Board members led by chairman Elijah Adul. 