Jared Ajowi who is currently nursing injuries at Nyabondo mission hospital in Nyakach sub county. He is one of the survivor of last night killings at the village where two people lost their lives. [Photo: Collins Oduor/ Standard] Three students are being held by police after the killing two people on Wednesday night. ALSO READ:

Teachers in fresh radical demands on allowances The two high school and one university student were held in connection with the hacking to death of secondary school teacher Manase Ong’ole. The teacher and his two companions were set upon after an altercation in a bar at Nyakach’s Nyamaroka trading centre. The teacher was said to have died at the scene of the attack while his companion, Steven Ongondo, is fighting for life at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. The second man, Jared Ajowi, who was with the Guu Secondary School teacher, is admitted to Nyabondo sub-county hospital. One of the suspects, aged 18, is a Form Four student at Wang’apala Secondary School. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Another 18-year-old is a student at Ramba Boys High School. University student The third suspect is a 21-year-old Moi University student. ALSO READ:

Beware: Your child could be a drug dealer The three are expected in court at Ahero. Pap Onditi OCPD Henry Malova said the three were in police custody and would have a mental assessment “since this is a murder case”. The injured mechanic, who spoke to The Standard from his hospital bed, said the three students left the bar after an altercation with the teacher. The teacher and his two friends followed shortly afterwards on a motorcycle. “It was about 10pm when we left the bar. We had gone just a few metres when the motorcycle broke down. We were engrossed in repairing it when we were ambushed,” he said. He said he was cut on the head and fell unconscious. A witness at the bar said the students and the teacher differed after he refused to buy them beer. ALSO READ:

Crisis talks to save schools third term “After the argument they left and moments later the teacher also left with the rider who was taking him home,” he said. Kenya Union of Post Primary Teachers’ Kisumu branch secretary, Zablon Awange, condemned the killing of the teacher. Mr Ong’ole had just resumed duty after schools opened.