Vihiga County youths have been urged to apply for training programmes and not to solely depend on formal employment as a source of income. In a meeting organized by Vihiga Chamber of Commerce in conjunction with the Department of Trade, Industrialization and Tourism in Luanda over the weekend, the youth were educated on the importance of improving technical skills as a way of sourcing out employment. ALSO READ:

House probes Sh23.9m land deal for governor’s residence Speaking at the event, Governor Wilber Ottichilo said there is need to address and educate young men on appreciating and endorsing entrepreneurship and agribusiness, as opposed to current cases of formal employment. “Our key focus is human culture. This is incorporated by seeing young people get adequate training and develop vast technical skills in fields of agribusiness, entrepreneurship. Other related engagements such as savings, loans and insurance is also vital to the life of youths, here in Vihiga County. This is a forum that we support as a government” the governor said. Kenya national chamber of commerce and industry Vihiga County chairman Rodgers Mulemi echoed the sentiments, arguing with the advent of devolution, youths should be in capacity of owning their own businesses. “It is important in this current young generation for one to possess technical skills. We are encouraging young men and women to enroll to colleges to acquire such skill. This should be reason enough for enabling them do work, engage in business and help fellow youths by employing them,” he said.  Also, youths were taken through lessons on importance of savings for their future once they have established businesses of their own. National Social Security Fund (NSSF) Vihiga County branch manager Esther Kemei tutored youths on the benefits accompanied with the practice of saving. “Youths area the backbone our nation. It is good that we had a chance to educate them and engage with them. NSSF does not give fund. Our mandate is strictly keeping money invested and after attaining a certain age the money is given back to them,” she said. The forum which brought close to three hundred young business men and women engaging in business ideas, was used to inform the youths of these years International Youth day, themed ‘Safe Space for Youth’. ALSO READ:

Blow to Ottichilo as assembly approves motion to impeach executives 