Interior CS Fred Matiang’i consoles Ann Muthoni (left) the wife of slain chief Peter Kimiti 40,at Kamakwa Location Nyeri County,on August 1,2018. Kimiti was shot dead on Thursday last week by unknown suspects.Looks on is Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga. [Photo: Kibata Kihu/Standard] The Government may have to transfer police officers as part of measures to curb rising insecurity in Nyeri County, a Cabinet secretary has said. ALSO READ:

New dawn for coffee farmers Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i, who visited the county for the second time in a month over insecurity, also said stern action would be taken against criminals. The CS was accompanied by Correctional Services Principal Secretary Zainab Hussein and Inspector General Joseph Boinnet during the visit. Matiang'i, who also visited the family of slain Kamakwa chief Peter Kimiti in Nyeri Town, said they would hunt criminals down and bring them to book. “I can confirm the death of the chief has rattled security teams. That is why we have employed a comprehensive approach in fighting crime in Nyeri as we seek to find out who these daring criminals are,” said Matiang'i. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 His second visit to the region came in the wake of increased cases of murder, robbery with violence, mugging and abductions, which have worsened in the past two months. By 7pm, it is not easy to find anyone on the streets on Nyeri Town as criminals take over. Residents have blamed the worsening security situation on laxity by police officers. The officers have also been accused of refusing to act on tip offs or intelligence. Last week, the family of an 82-year-old man who was abducted and has been missing for three weeks narrated how officers at the Directorate of Criminal Department in Karatina frustrated them. ALSO READ:

Matiangi speaks tough on fishermen arrests The family said despite helping the officers to track down those who abducted Peter Githinji, the police later freed a suspect without an explanation. "We had our father's telephone records and those of the man he was with. We even facilitated police officers to travel to Nakuru to arrest the suspect but they have now released him," said one of Githinji's sons. Matiang'i told residents that they will soon start witnessing changes to improve security. The CS held meetings with senior regional and county security officers over the deteriorating security situation in the county. "The Government will not tolerate attacks on innocent Kenyans and security officers, who have dedicated their lives to serve the people. Those found engaging in crime will be dealt with accordingly," said Matiang'i who spoke at the slain chief's home. He described Kimiti as a hardworking officer. “We are here not just to console Kimiti’s family ,but also to investigate and deal with insecurity in Nyeri. I am also encouraging chiefs and police officers in this area to be firm and brave in fighting crime,” he said. ALSO READ:

Nyeri chief killed in his home The CS also said five people had been arrested in connection with the chief's killing. He added: “I would like to assure parents, teachers and participants at the music festival in Nyeri of their safety." 