Two Kenya Bureau of Standards officials have been barred from their offices at the Mombasa port until their case is determined. Inspection manager Samuel Omolo and inspection officer Daniel Khamba have been accused of abuse of office by authorising the release of 10,000 bags of contaminated sugar. ALSO READ:

Kebs manager banned from Mombasa port Mombasa Resident Magistrate Christine Ogweno ruled that Mr Omolo and Mr Khamba should not be allowed into their offices at Kilindini Harbour. The two have been charged alongside businessmen Hassan Abdi and Abdulahi Abdi Mohamed and clearing agent Ali Abdi. Ms Ogweno released the accused on a cash bail of Sh500, 000 each after they denied the charges. They were also ordered to report to a police station every two weeks. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. State lawyer Alice Mbeah had opposed defence lawyer Leonard Shimaka's application to free the accused on bail arguing that the charges they faced were serious. The magistrate had granted Omolo and his co-accused Sh1 million cash bail each before Mr Shimaka applied to have the terms reviewed. “I am applying for you to consider reviewing your earlier order that the accused persons be released on a cash bail of Sh1 million as they cannot raise this amount today to get their freedom,” said Shimaka. He added: "They are civil servants who can only raise such money after taking loans." ALSO READ:

MP faults Ruto on illegal sugar Shimaka, who teamed up with lawyer Jared Magolo, pleaded with the court to be lenient to their clients. Mr Magolo caused laughter in court when he said Mr Abdi had never seen Sh1 million. "My client is a mere clerk in a clearing firm. The highest amount he has handled is Sh300,000, and that was after he took a loan for a cooperative society," he said. On Friday, the Government said 10,000 bags of sugar believed to be harmful to human health were released into the market by the accused persons using custom entry numbers 2018 MSA 6935697 and 2018 MSA 6935720. The Government said police had intensified investigations into the scam and were keen to seize the contaminated sugar, which they hope to produce as an exhibit in court. Omolo and Khamba have denied that on July 11, 2018, at Boss Freight Container Freight Station, being Kebs inspection manager and inspection officer respectively, they unlawfully authorised the release of 10,000 bags of sub-standard sugar from Egypt to Flora Bakers. Peter Nzui, a health officer, also faced abuse of office charges for authorising the release of the bad sugar. Also charged are Flora Bakers Company and Air Menzies International Company. ALSO READ:

Traders clash with police on sugar haul 