 Donors and the State will spend Sh12.7 billion to upgrade and inter-connect six counties. ALSO READ:

Turkey currency crashes to new lows as market alarm grows The European Union and French Development Agency (AFD) in partnership with the Government will inject the funds to upgrade rural roads in Isiolo, Marsabit, Samburu, Laipikia, Meru and Tharaka-Nithi. Stakeholder consultations have already been done in Laikipia, Meru, Tharaka-Nithi and Isiolo while consultants were in Marsabit and Samburu from Friday last week. The counties were chosen under the donors’ Climate Proofed Rural Roads in Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (Asal) programme. While meeting the stakeholders in Isiolo on Thursday, the experts from CAS Consultants revealed that the county will get about Sh1.9 billion for upgrading of five rural roads. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The five roads with a total length of 235 kilometres were largely picked on the basis of accessibility to schools and health centres and transportation of livestock and farm produce to markets. ‘‘The EU will contribute 60 million euros, AFD 30 million euros and the Kenyan government 20 million euros for the six counties,’’ said CAS consulting engineer Erick Abuya. He said the contractors who would win the tenders would gravel the entire road section and install drainage structures. ‘‘We will work with the county government, the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (Kerra) and the local leaders,’’ assured the engineer who was accompanied by consultant sociologist Pauline Ikumi. ALSO READ:

Match official left writhing in pain after being hit Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo, several MCAs and regional administration representatives led by the County Commissioner’s Personal Assistant Michael Wangila attended the function. Abuya said after consultations with stakeholders, a sixth-month feasibility study on the selected roads will commence in the six counties, so as to deliver a well-designed and heavily graveled road network in the region. 