Four senators will be questioned over alleged extortion of Sh100 million from a businessman at the centre of the Ruaraka land saga. And a leaked official document suggests the Government had acquired the Rauraka land, which has been the subject of an investigation against private firms that were paid Sh1.5 billion for the property. ALSO READ:

The unending puzzle about Ruaraka land Businessman Francis Mburu recorded a statement at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, and shared with the detectives an audio he recorded of the three men and a woman purportedly extorting money from him. Investigators were reportedly told that the senators approached the businessman on separate occasions, saying they wanted the money to share with other members of a committee investigating the issue to write “a favourable report”. They all met at a five-star hotel in the city where the businessman recorded them, according to police sources. In the audio, according to those who have heard it, one of the senators is heard claiming “we can help you all”. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 But Mburu told the police he declined to give out the money because he is innocent. He declined to comment on the issue yesterday, saying the matter is with the police. Kinoti confirmed DCI George Kinoti confirmed Mburu recorded the statement. ALSO READ:

Matiang'i on the spot for approving Sh1.5b land sale He recorded the statement on August 9 and a probe is underway. In a report tabled in the Senate, the Public Accounts Committee wants the investigation and prosecution of the directors of the Whispering Palms Estate, Afrison Export Import and Huelands Ltd for making fraudulent claim on the ownership of the land, thereby occasioning the taxpayer loss of Sh1.5 billion. And according to the letter authored in 2000 by then Permanent Secretary for Provincial Administration Zakayo Cheyuiot to the Office of the President, through then Permanent Secretary Secretary to the Cabinet Richard Leakey, the former documented the steps his office had taken to acquire the land title L.R no 7879/4 at Drive-in estate now claimed to be private land. “On 18th August 1983, the Government through this office purchased Drive-in Estate from the then Kenya Posts and Telecommunication Corporation due to proximity of a sensitive installation within General Service Unit headquarters. The purchase price was Sh64 million,” reads Cheyuiot’s letter to Leakey. He went ahead to attach the sale agreement. The letter was also copied to the then GSU commandant S.K Cheramboss. In the recent days, Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee (PAIC) led by Senator Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay) and National Assembly Lands Committee led by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai have given conflicting recommendations on the ownership of the land. While the National Assembly noted the land in question is private property, the Senate differed. It affirmed the land belongs to the public and investigating agencies should ensure the Sh1.5 billion paid to claimants is recovered. ALSO READ:

Senate wants Matiangí, Swazuri investigated over Ruaraka land scam The matter came to the fore following complaints by Drive-in Primary and Ruaraka High Schools. The owners of the companies say contrary to the report by the Senate committee, they have a deed of indemnity issued by National Land Commission.