National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has Tuesday joined thousands of Muslim faithful in Garissa town to mark Idd ul-Adha celebrations. Addressing the press at General Mohamud Idd grounds, Duale took a swipe at the chief Khadhi for dividing the Muslim community by pronouncing that Idd ul-Adha be celebrated on Wednesday in Kenya. ALSO READ:

Muslims gather on Mount Arafat for haj climax This is not the first time the chief Kahdhi Ahemd Kassim Mugdar is finding himself in a collision course with the Muslim community over his declarations on when the two most important holidays are to be observed. Duale said that ‘Muslims in Kenya will be part of the Muslim everywhere else in the World’. “Idd ul-Adha is anchored in the Hajj pilgrimage. The 5 days of Hajj one of the most important days is when the pilgrims are in the mount Arafat. And the second day after mount Arafat is when Idd ul-Adha is. The chief Khadhi should tell us where his mount Arafat other than the one outside the holy city of Mecca is,” he added. “We are telling the chief Khadhi you are out of order and you cannot divide the Muslim Umma in Kenya. We will not allow you to do that,” Duale reiterated. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The majority leader said under the constitution article 170 the Kahdhi’s court has three function, marriage, divorce and inheritance. “He has no business guiding the Muslim on the day they should perform their Idd ul-Adha or Eid Al-Fitr,” the Garissa township legislator said. “We are going to write to the Judicial Service Commission where we have a Muslim member. He should take me very seriously because this time round we will deal with him. We will not allow the chief Khadhi to divide the Muslim community and Umma along ethnic and regional basis,” he said. “He should keep himself to his three core functions of marriage, divorce and inheritance as provided for in the constitution,” Duale said. ALSO READ:

Two million Muslims begin hajj pilgrimage Duale called on all the Muslims, the national Muslim forums, SUPKEM, all the Imams to rise to the occasion and tell the chief Khadhi ‘he is out of order’. “We don’t hear or see him in the development of Islam in Kenya, Islamic functions. We only see him when he wants to divide the Muslim community in Kenya,” he said. Duale told the chief Khadhi that he is paid the salary through tax payer’s money adding that ‘that office of the Chief Kahdi belongs to the Muslim community and you will not use that office to divide us’.