Deputy President William Ruto shares roasted maize with residents of Endebes during a development tour of Trans Nzoia County. Deputy President William Ruto during a stopover at Endebes when he toured Trans Nzoia County on Friday. [Photo: Standard] An exchange of words has ensued between Deputy President William Ruto and Saboti MP, Caleb Amisi after the DP told the lawmaker to his face that he would not support development in his constituency unless he joins his political camp. ALSO READ:

150 deaf people get Sh3m trade tools Addressing a public rally at Endebess Primary School on Friday last week, Ruto scolded Amisi and warned that his constituency will only benefit from national government if he cooperates. The DP said the government would build three technical colleges in Cherangany, Endebes, Kiminini and Kwanza constituencies but not in Saboti. “The government will from next month set up three technical training colleges in Kiminini, Endebess and Cherangany. I have also asked Kwanza to look for a piece of land where we will build a college but in Saboti. Unless the area MP stops the ‘Tibiim' and ‘Tialala' politics he will have to sort himself out,” Ruto told the rally. But in a rejoinder, Amisi, who was elected on an Orange Democratic movement (ODM) ticket vowed not to succumb to pressure from the Deputy President to join his camp in favour of development from the national government. Speaking at Victory church in Mitume, Kitale the youthful lawmaker acccused the DP of practising dictatorial politics Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. According to the MP, Ruto is out to force elected leaders to dance to his political tune. “It is unfair for the DP to say that he will only support development in my constituency if I join his camp. Let him know that national resources do not belong to individuals and my constituents deserve development because they pay tax,” the MP said. The MP challenged the DP that as a public servant he should serve Kenyans equally irrespective of their political affiliation. ALSO READ:

‘No grass’: Livestock sector troubled by drought ‘I do not need favours from the DP and I’m not ready to quit ODM to join him. I support the new-found working relation between President Uhuru Kenyatta and my party leader Raila Odinga and if there are any urgent issues I will direct them to the president,” he stated. “I’m not of the type of political leaders who go to beg for handouts. I’m contented with what I have and I need respect from other leaders,” he said