  The Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) has ordered for speedy probe into the shooting of a former Garissa County executive in Kileleshwa, Nairobi County. The DPP’s office Tuesday directed the Director of Criminal Investigations to immediately commence investigations to the circumstances that led to the shooting with a view of apprehending the culprits. ALSO READ:

DPP gets reprieve on bid to charge Kamau afresh A team was on Wednesday set up and visited the scene of shooting as part of the shooting of former finance CEC for Garissa County Idris Aden Mkutar, 33 was shot in the head and left for death outside a hotel in Kileleshwa, Nairobi. At least five people have been interrogated by the team pursuing the case amid growing tension in his home in Garissa. There are fears of inter-clan retaliations following the incident amid counter accusations. “There are many speculations on how and why the man was attacked and this may lead to bloody retaliation. We hope police move with speed and get those behind it irrespective of their status,” said a family member of the victim. Mkutar is in critical condition following the shooting incident. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Police say a lone gunman followed the victim to his car and shot him at close range in the head before escaping without stealing anything from him. Police say they are yet to know the motive of the shooting. A team of detectives who visited the scene were informed the victim had left prayers at a nearby mosque and was leaving for his house when he was attacked. ALSO READ:

Rebuilding our ethical foundations critical to winning anti-graft war He was walking to his car when a gunman who had been waiting at the entrance of the facility pursued him. The gunman jumped onto a waiting motorcycle that was waiting. Nairobi deputy police boss Richard Kerich said they are investigating the motive and those behind the incident. “The victim is in hospital but with injuries in the head. We don’t know the motive of the incident,” he said. A family spokesman said Mkutar had complained of threats to his life to police. He shared his statement in which he named possible suspects behind the threats with his lawyers. A strange number that had originated Dubai called him saying he should take care of his life over issues he has been handling in the past at the County. Mkutar had been sacked by the former Garissa County administration and moved to court where he was awarded Sh50 million for wrongful sacking. ALSO READ:

Duo's death probe adjourned