Flooded Ombaka Mixed Secondary school located in Nyando, Kisumu county on April 29,2018. The school is among the ones expected to be opened on April 30th but the raging floods are likely to interfere with the opening. [Photo: Denish Ochieng/ Standard] Teachers in Nyando now want the region declared a hardship area. ALSO READ:

East Africa games: Kwanthanze retain volleyball title in East Africa games This would enable them to benefit from hardship allowances and other privileges enjoyed by their colleagues working in harsh environments. Led by Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) officials, the teachers have petitioned the National Assembly, Ministry of Education and the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) for consideration. Ephraim Kanang’a, the Knut branch executive secretary, yesterday said he was waiting for communication from TSC following a recent evaluation. “This process involves legislation and as representatives of teachers on the ground, we literally feel the pinch and want it done as soon as yesterday,” said Mr Kanang’a. Nyando is located in Kano plains, which is affected by perennial flooding. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Households displaced In April, at least 2,000 households were displaced by floods that also left roads and other infrastructure damaged. Some schools were turned into rescue centres. Kanang’a yesterday said most schools in the area were facing a shortage of teachers as those who were posted there often left due to the flooding. ALSO READ:

State makes key concessions in bid to forestall strike “During rainy seasons, the floods render roads impassable, diseases creep in and teachers have to contend with hard living conditions. The same is experienced during drought, when water scarcity and hunger set in. Many teachers do not feel comfortable being brought here,” he said. Last month, Kanang’a led a stakeholders' meeting during which an assessment of the area was done. He said the report from the assessment had been shared with Parliament through area MP Jared Okello, Knut national leaders and TSC for further action. 