Plans have been finalised to issue 5000 title deeds to residents of Mokowe Township in Lamu County. County Executive Committee member for Lands, Roads and Infrastructure County Executive Member Fahima Araphat stated that a survey had already been done for the area and that the title deed issuance will be done transparently. ALSO READ:

Slain officer praised She said that the title deed issuance is part of a wider plan by the county government to empower Lamu residents to be able to develop their land parcels without fear of losing them. “Lamu land owners have for a long time been marginalised by previous administrations which did not ensure land rights were adhered to,” Araphat stated. Residents who spoke to The Standard, however warned the County government to ensure that genuine land owners benefit from the exercise. '' We are happy that atlast people in Mokowe are being recognised and issued with title deeds. However we hope that grabbers will not find space and benefit here,'' Said Athman, a resident said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Araphat further said that the county government had already ensured that all Mkunumbi residents were in receipt of their 768 acre parcel of land with title deeds already issued. “Title deeds have been a major issue especially in Mokowe area which is the county headquarters and there have been numerous cases of land invasions by squatters on “perceived” idle land,” the lands CEC said. The CEC further shed light on the progress of the tarmacking of the 113 Kilometre Lamu-Witu road which she inspected with officials from the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) and Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure officials. She said the national government is keen to have the contractor finish tarmacking the road by 2020. ALSO READ:

Lamu leaders demand say in controversial coal plant “The agreed timeline was 2020, and it the onus is on the contractor (H-Young) to deliver the road by that year,” she added. The CEC said it was imperative to have the Lamu-Witu Road tarmacked in order to improve security and facilitate the mushrooming of satellite towns within Lamu County. The road infrastructure will also make Lamu a favourable investment destination and raise the county’s profile as both a tourist and a port city. She also said the county government had set aside in its 2018/2019 county roads allocation budget Sh80 million that will mostly go towards building feeder roads in Mpeketoni. Araphat has stated that the cunty government will issue out 5,000 title deeds in Mokowe area to curb land grabbing that has been common in the area which is now the new county headquarters. Land invasions have been on the rise especially with increased speculation over land in the area.  ALSO READ:

Uhuru in impromptu visit of Lamu County