Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji. [File, Standard] The Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has ordered investigations into the circumstances that led to the brutal murder of a man from Machakos who was allegedly murdered over a Sh9m life insurance policy claim. ALSO READ:

Man escapes death by whisker This follows an investigative news report that aired on a local TV station where the family of the late Makau Musyoka is appealing for justice. Musyoki, 27, died under mysterious circumstances. His body was found near their homestead in Kangundo, Machakos County. A postmortem revealed that he was hit on the head using a blunt object. Police investigations have identified Musyoki's uncle, Evans Kasyoki, as the prime suspect. It is believed he orchestrated Musyoki's murder in order to claim a life insurance policy worth Sh9m from two insurance companies. “The DPP attention has been drawn to a new feature appearing on Citizen Kenya Prime Time news in regard to the Kangundo incident. Due to the nature of the case, the DPP has directed that immediate legal steps be taken to ensure justice is done,” reads a statement from Haji’s office, posted on Twitter. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. He has cautioned anyone found to be obstructing the administration of justice for the family of the deceased will equally be prosecuted. The statement further reads: “DPP further wishes to inform the public that obstruction of due process is serious criminal offence & any person who will be found culpable shall face the full force of the law.” Two life policies According to the #MurderForProfit investigative report, the circumstances around Musyoki's brutal murder involves a life insurance cover worth Sh 1 million and Sh 8 million that was taken from Jubilee Insurance and AIG Insurance respectively. The policies had been taken only three days prior to his death. The investigative story has angered Kenyans who are watching if the intervention of the DPP will lead to justice for the family that wants the man believed to be behind the murder of Musyoka to be charged. ALSO READ:

DPP loses bid to withdraw Sh500m land case