A matatu driver in Bomet County is nursing injuries after a police officer hit him with a pistol for allegedly refusing to part with a bribe. Bernard Cheruiyot Yegon had his three teeth knocked off and cloths torn during the incident near Rorok Tea Factory in Konoin Sub County. ALSO READ:

Four MPs defend Ruto, Waiguru over graft claims Cheruiyot said four police officers confronted him as he waited to be paid by a customer and asked him for “lunch”. “I told them I did not have money since I was waiting to be paid by a customer and they forcefully grabbed me and started searching my pockets for money,” Yegon claimed He added: “I tried resisting the search but one of them who a pistol had said I had become rude to them and hit be on the jaws,” Yegon said due to pain, he fell down and one of them took away Sh40, 000 from his pocket before fleeing. The driver said attempts by members of the public to intervene became futile. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “The officers fled the scene after realizing the public had started grouping to watch what was going on,” Yegon said in an interview. The incident has sparked uproar with matatu operators threatening to stage protests across the county to demand action against the police officers. Chairman of Matatu owners association in Bomet Jacob Kerich condemned the incident saying the officers should be arrested and charged with assault. ALSO READ:

Electing corrupt leaders no big deal to Kenyans Kerich gave county police commandant Naomi Ichami two days to take action warning that if the officers will not be charged they will take to the streets. “If no action will be taken against the officers we are going to mobilize all operators to down tools. It is wrong for a law e force to inflict injuries on an innocent driver going about his duties just because of a bribe,” said kerich. Yegon was treated at Mogogosiek health centre in Konoin. He however says his attempts to record statement over the incident with police at Mogogosiek police station have been frustrated. “I have been camping at Mogogosiek police station the whole after but I have been ignored and told to wait,” he claims saying he suspects officers are trying to cover up the matter. Yegon was forced to travele all the way to Bomet to report the matter. ALSO READ:

Ipsos: How un-employed Kenyans make their money