Earnest Kaaria, a banana farmer in Mitunguu, South Imenti in Meru pays Sh4, 000 to get water from Mitunguu Irrigation Scheme. Mr Kaaria, one of the biggest banana farmers in Mitunguu, the banana capital of the county says though he can afford the charge, many poorer farmers could not. "Bananas are the mainstay of Mitunguu's economy and contributes greatly to economy of Meru. We want to put more land under bananas but lack of water for irrigation has prevented us," Kaaria said. Lack of water for irrigation has compromised banana farming in Mitunguu and now farmers are appealing for construction of a dam on Thingithu River for them to increase production. The increasing number of locals drawn to the profitable banana farming has led to water shortage. While distributing water pipes and storage tanks to water projects Mitunguu MCA Evans Mawira appealed to the national government to construct the Thingithu dam to benefit the dry parts of Imenti. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “The number of banana farmers has increased significantly, the reason Mitunguu has become the banana capital of Meru. The number of trucks from Nairobi coming to buy our bananas is big but water for irrigation is becoming scarce,” said Mr Mawira when he distributed the water pipes to nearly 600 households. The ward rep said the area is crucial to achieving food security for residents and contributing to the economy of the region, hence the need for the national government to build the dam. Deputy President William Ruto launched the construction of Thangatha (Tigania), Kianjuri (Buuri) and Ura 4 (Igembe) dams at the weekend. The dams completion were pegged at six months. The government also plans to build Ura 5 and Kathita and Kithino mega dams. Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelgui said at the weekend that at one and half times the size of Ndaka-ini dam in Murang'a county, Kithino dam in Abogeta East will be a game changer for the region. South Imenti farmers also want a dam to increase production of bananas and other agricultural produce. He said farmers were using the good income from bananas to educate their children and meet other basic needs, in addition to saving money for other projects. “We are also appealing to the water resources management authority to arrest the crisis caused by people who have taken water directly from the rivers in upper areas, leaving those of us in downstream with little water for irrigation,” Mawira said. Many big banana farmers have to pay up to Sh4,000 to get water from the Mitunguu Irrigation Scheme but those with smaller farms say they cannot afford it, hence the need for the Thingithu dam. Mitunguu Agriculture Officer Benard Mburugu said with enough water farmers in Mitunguu would be able to supply many markets as the demand had outstripped production. In 2013, the county produced a total of 323,363 tons of bananas valued at Sh3.8 billion up from the previous year’s 286,205 tons that fetched Sh3.1 billion. Meru accounts for about 40 per cent of Kenya’s total annual banana production and we are producing more than Kisii, hence the need for more water to escalate production,” Mawira said. 