 Patients' registration at the Safaricom Foundation funded medical camp in Ahero, Kisumu County. ALSO READ:

Hippo kills croc attack survivor Safaricom Foundation in partnership with the Kenya Diabetes Management and Information Centre on Friday held a free medical camp at Ahero in Kisumu County as part of the foundations efforts to ease access to quality medical care in the country. The medical camp saw over 2,000 people benefit from free consultations, diagnosis, surgeries and treatment. It benefited patients suffering from diabetes, prostate cancer, eye cataracts and other ailments in Kisumu and the vast western region.  Mother and child at the medical camp in Kisumu. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “Access to quality health is still a challenge in many parts of the country which is why Safaricom Foundation is keen to regularly fund free medical camps across the country to bring free health services closer to people who need them most,” Said George Ndhiwa, Safaricom Head of Greater Western Region. The Camp is part of the Twaweza Live Campaign, a 7-month long campaign that will see Safaricom engage with communities across Kenya through free medical camps, campus take overs, great device offers, talent search activities, youth mentorship programs and music concerts.  ALSO READ:

MP’s men beat me, court told Artiste, Nameless, at the medical camp in Kisumu. The foundation which partners with Kenyan communities, organizations and institutions to improve and transform lives, has over the years held medical camps countrywide. The medical camps stand to positively impact the lives of local communities that have few or no medical facilities or face the challenge of access to healthcare. Government statistics show that Kenya makes an annual loss of over Sh5 billion on time spent by workers seeking better health care and treatment to mild diseases. On average, over 40 percent of Kenyans are hindered by cost and another 18 percent by distance in access to health care.