Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka believes his decision to work with Jubilee Party will put him ahead of the pack in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The former vice president further said intense talks were still on between him and his National Super Alliance (NASA) colleagues Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) to form a formidable force to claim the presidency at the opportune time. ALSO READ:

Ruto denies talk of Uhuru fallout “My resolve and that of the Wiper family to be fully behind Uhuru to achieve his four-pillar development agenda as he concludes his 10-year tenure in office is sealed and final," Kalonzo said. "As the Kamba community we desire and want to be on the negotiating table with indisputable political backup for the highest seat on the land. There are no ifs nor buts in this fight for 2022.” Kalonzo was speaking at his Mwingi North home in Kitui County after chairing Wiper’s National Executive Council and Parliamentary Group meetings that agreed to close ranks with Uhuru and ODM party leader Raila Odinga in transforming the country. And at a fundraiser for Gai Mixed Secondary School during which Sh5.5 million was raised, Kalonzo said he would not squander another chance to ascend to the presidency.  Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu urged Kalonzo to be steadfast in his quest for the top seat and stop wasting time and energy looking over his shoulder. The governor congratulated the Wiper leader for his efforts to bring on board all Kamba leaders in the quest for a successful vote hunt in future elections. “It is open secret that your star has risen. Don’t stop there - go further and knock on more doors,” she said, adding that Kalonzo and other leaders should stop playing games between now and 2022. “Wacheni mchezo na kuchekacheka. Ni lazima kufanya kazi ya ziada ili tupate hicho kiti (Let’s stop the games. We must work hard to win the presidency).” ALSO READ:

Uhuru mourns eight pupils killed in accident The governor threatened to impose sanctions on any residents who had reached 18 years and had not registered for national identity cards or as voters. “We cannot have one of our own at the presidency if our people  do not register as voters en masse,” said Ngilu.