Over 20,000 homes in Nyeri County will next week be connected to the national electric grid under the last mile electricity project. Nyeri leaders held a meeting with Energy Cabinet Secretary, Charles Keter on the project expected to be launched next week on August 17. ALSO READ:

Sweet sukuma wiki that has no acid excite farmers The leaders Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu, Mps Kanini Kega (Kieni), Ngunjiri Wambugu, (Nyeri Town), Antony Kiai (Mukurweini) and Gichuhi Mwangi (Tetu) also held a brief meeting prior to the visit. “To achieve this target of connecting the 25,000 homes I was accompanied by Nyeri Mps to meet Keter who agreed to launch mass connection of homes to electricity under the last mile electricity program next week,” She noted that close to 400 homes in Kiganjo, Nyeri County had already been connected to electricity under the last mile project. Ms Karugu lauded the project stating access to electricity is a major enabler to development and once connected youths will be able to start small businesses, and cottages industries.  “This initiative will complement efforts towards fighting unemployment in Nyeri County,” she explained. Mr Wambugu said the leaders flagged all the areas that need transformers to maximimise the efficient connection of electricity to individual homes and institutions. “In Nyeri Town we have close to 45 such locations where transformers will be installed; or if already installed, where connections will be made from the transformers to homes and schools nearby. Essentially the effect of this will be felt in close to 2,000 families across the constituency,” he noted. Tetu MP James Gichuhi pointed to eight locations within his constituency which would benefit from project. ALSO READ:

Nyeri chief killed in his home "I am targeting 2000 homes to be connected to the national grid as well as a markets and shopping centres within the constituency which will benefit through the street lighting project," he explained. The leaders also sort support on street lighting within the county. During May 2015 beatification of Blessed Sister Irene Nyaatha Stefani, Nyeri County benefited from Sh200 million towards key developments in the energy and roads department. The beatification process helped in speeding up the project with national government boosting the street lighting project by paying upto Sh130million for the erection and connection of over 200 streetlights in the county. At the time of its launch the street lighting project was hailed as revolutionary by residents and was expected to drive the county into a 24 hour economy as all major towns had benefitted from the project.  ALSO READ:

County, Nema clash over dumpsite project