From Right- Governors John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu) and Stephen Sang (Nandi) during the funeral of Governor Mandago's mother Salina Lelei at Limnyomoi in Uasin Gishu County. The leaders assured residents that the agreement between the president and his deputy on the 2022 succession politics still stands. 07-08-2018. [PHOTO BY: KEVIN TUNOI] Allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President Willim Ruto have blamed the political handshake between Raila and Uhuru for the 'confusion' in Jubilee. ALSO READ:

Stick with Raila, Western politicians urge Mudavadi Speaking a day after the DP said he was sure of President Kenyatta’s support in 2022, the leaders from the North Rift and central Kenya returned to the ‘debt' politics debate, throwing their weight behind Uhuru’s Number Two, saying he deserved to be supported in the next elections. National Super Alliance (NASA) leader Raila Odinga was the subject of condemnation for allegedly causing confusion in the party and seeking to wreck the political marriage between the President and his deputy. “We believe Uhuru will support Ruto in 2022. We have no doubt. The President has a debt that he has to pay with Ruto,” said Nandi Governor Stephen Sang. “Be careful with Raila. He has a ploy of planning bad issues. The President is busy on the Big Four agenda. We are a block in Mt Kenya and we are waiting to vote for the DP in 2022,” said Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu.  "We are looking for votes for the DP in 2022. Jubilee was in peace until Raila came in. He has a Master's degree in propaganda and confusion," said Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri. The leaders were speaking during the burial of Salina Lelei, the stepmother of Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago in Soy constituency. Others present were governors Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Stephen Sang (Nandi), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) and Stanley Kiptis (Baringo). “There is no need to stress that we are united to make Ruto president. In Meru, we have made up our minds and are solidly behind the DP. Our focus is on searching for number two, one who will deputise him,” said Governor Njuki. ALSO READ:

CS in shouting match with MP over Raila remark “We started a journey of peace and we are together in 2022,” added Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga. Allay fears The statements came a day after the DP sought to allay fears of a fallout with President Kenyatta, saying Uhuru would personally campaign for him in 2022. Speaking in Nyeri during a meeting with local leaders, the DP sought to put to rest speculation that the Raila-Kenyatta handshake had wrecked the Jubilee boat and that the DP’s support was not assured in 2022. 