Three months after a “handshake” between Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, the Coast politician Saturday met former President Daniel Moi at his Kabarak home. Joho, Mzee Moi and Senator Gideon held closed-door talks for an hour as a host of other Coast leaders waited on them. ALSO READ:

Why ‘handshake’ could be the last nail on TJRC report’s coffin Although it was not immediately clear the import of the discussions, the meeting came at a time Senator Moi and his allies have intensified forays into the Coast, particularly in Kwale and Mombasa. The significance of the coastal strip in national politics has never been lost to political players. In his time, President Moi had strong allies who did the political bidding for him in the region. “Governor Joho together with Mzee Moi and Senator Gideon held a one-hour closed-door meeting and thereafter had lunch,” a statement from the ex-President’s office stated. After the meeting, Joho presided over a funds drive in aid of the construction of Alsalam Mosque in Maralal and was later scheduled to be hosted by Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuuda. “I was fortunate to hear his (Moi’s) wisdom on some national issues and thanked him for his time at the helm of this country,” said Joho in a statement. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. He also thanked Gideon for “graciously welcoming us”, adding that the meeting was in the spirit of building the bridges initiative and fostering unity. “A nation rarely gets the opportunity to look back and fix its divisions. History is full of countries that have gone down the wrong path,” said Joho. As an ODM deputy party leader and one who has proved himself an asset to the party, Joho’s rapprochement with Gideon is a boon to the latter’s political ambitions. ALSO READ:

Uhuru, Raila goal is to secure their dynastic interests While Gideon and Joho have fully embraced the handshake between President Kenyatta and Raila, the DP has been lukewarm. Senator Moi describes Joho as an “extremely important person in the politics of Coast region”, one whom he will work closely with. In May, Ruto unsuccessfully tried to meet Mzee Moi after he paid him a courtesy call and waited for close to three hours in what was termed as a clash of engagement. In the wake of the May meeting, Joho intensified his attacks on Deputy President William Ruto, at one time publicly vowing to work with his political enemies. Accompanying Joho Saturday were MPs Mishi Mboko (Likoni), Zulekha Hassan (Kwale Woman Rep) Ken Chonga (Kilifi South), Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), Florence Mutua (Busia), Abdikadir Osman (Fafi) and Mombasa Speaker Arub Khatri. bsanga@standardmedia.co.ke ALSO READ:

DP Ruto: They are hating on me!