  Police in Homa Bay are investigating how burglars gained entry into guarded government offices in Homa Bay and stole computers and other valuables. The thieves broke padlocks and gained entry into the offices despite the fact the premises were ion a 24 hours security surveillance. ALSO READ:

Ward reps want EACC to probe service board The officials of the National Government and County Government were on Thursday shocked when they reported on duty only to find their offices broken into and ransacked. County Directorate of Criminal Investigations Commander Daniel Wachira said they were investigating the incident. “We are collecting records of police officers who were supposed to be on duty that night. This will enable us to know if they actually reported on duty or not. If we found that they reported, they will tell us where they were when the incident was taking place,” said Wachira. He said the findings will enable them to take appropriate legal action against police officers who were guarding the offices. One of the affected offices was that of the Homa Bay Deputy County Commissioner (DCC) who the chairman of the sub county security committee is. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Other offices included that of County Government Executive Committee member for Agriculture, county Disaster Department, the National Persons Living with Disability and the County Budget and Economics Forum. Some of the offices had their door locks broken indicating a forced entry. Others were opened in normal ways yet the office holders locked them when they left on Wednesday evening. Workers who reported on duty on Thursday morning were dismayed to find the devices missing. ALSO READ:

I'll sack staff for laxity, warns Awiti Some workers argued that the brakeage could have been an inside job considering that some doors were opened using keys. An officer from the department of the persons living with disability told journalists that they lost important data due to the theft. “This theft is a setback to us. We have lost most information about the disabled person from Homa Bay County and it will take time to recover the information,” said the officer. 