Committee on Appointment Chairman Justin Muturi during the vetting of Justice Kariuki Kihara for the position of Attorney General at County Hall on Thursday 22/03/18. [Photo: Boniface Okendo,Standard] National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has said that investigation into the bribery allegations touching on some unnamed Members of Parliament, that resulted into the rejection of committee report on sugar is underway. ALSO READ:

MPs should stay true to oath of office In a statement that was dispatched to newsrooms, Muturi lamented the allegations and indicated that his office takes the claims as a matter of immense concern. “My office and the House leadership in general takes bribery allegations in the precincts of the Parliament very very seriously. This must be thoroughly investigated and appropriate action taken pursuant to relevant statutes,” statement notes. Muturi says that he has directed the Clerk of the National Assembly to contact members who cited bribery allegations, so that they can write their testimonies with the Powers and Privileges Committee. The committee will then evaluate the information and invite the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to take up the matter and facilitate prosecution of those found culpable, as per the requirements of Leadership and Integrity Act.  Statement precedes an outcry from legislators hailing from the Kenya’s sugar belts, where the members of Parliament accused their colleagues of rushing over the report and compromising to shoot it down. Muhoroni Member of Parliament Peter K’oyoo fingered his colleagues for failing to exercise patriotism at the time they were needed best. And, that the report only required few amendments to be implemented. His counterpart from Funyula, Oundo Mudenyo said that the members failed to read the report on entirety and instead settled on the recommendations, after which they binned the report when it touched on ‘sacred cows.’ Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has waded into the matter. He stated that the legislators literally gave sugar barons a voice, and a stamp to perpetuate impunity that has crippled the sugar industry. ALSO READ:

Bribery claims as MPs rescue Rotich, Adan