 Kaloleni residents are now calling on the office of the DPP and EACC to investigate the alleged misuse of Sh7.2 million by area MCA Peter Imwatok. The group says the funds were meant for the rehabilitation of Majimbo Grounds. According to documents filed at the office of the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission and seen by The Standard, Kaloleni residents association (KERA) and Kaloleni Seniors Club petitioned the anti-graft agencies to hold Imwatok accountable for the alleged misuse of millions in public funds. Zacchaeus Kwendo (pictured) in the letter detailed how the monies to build a perimeter wall to cover the ground was rechanneled and it was fenced using wire mesh. “Our big question is what happened to the money which was allocated to construct a perimeter wall during the 2014/2015 financial year. As the commission, we request your good office to carry out investigation and take action against the misuse of public funds,” read the letter dated August 14.  Kwendo further noted that efforts to reach the MCA in order to give an insight on the progress of the project had proved futile thus their resolve to move to the authorities. A subsequent letter signed by KERA chairman Olack Ezra and Secretary Andika Lewis, was also written to the office of Governor Mike Sonko, urging him to act swiftly and help resolve the situation. “As the Governor who is committed in fighting graft we shall really appreciate your quick action on the above matter” read the letter in part. Makongeni MCA, Peter Imwatok however blamed Governor Mike Sonko for his woes saying that he was using the residents to try and intimidate him following the MCA’s insistent criticism of Sonko’s style of leadership. He admitted that whereas plans had been made to build a perimeter wall by the then Kidero Government, they had to work with the available budget then. “What we will not allow is Sonko to use the name of the DPP and EACC to silence anyone who has a divergent view on his inadequacies. Majimbo Ground was not to be built a perimeter wall but a perimeter fence subject to the money that the then County Government was having,” he said. “I am ready to appear before the EACC, DPP or DCI at any time and give my statement because had we not fenced that land then right now Majimbo could be a housing project. We were safeguarding the ground so Sonko should stop feeding the public with lies,” he added.