Three Mps and four Mca’s from Nyamira County have accused some Government operatives whom they claimed were keen on undermining Chief Justice David Maraga and Interior Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang’i. The Mps Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) and Alfa Miruka (Bomachoge Chache) said that attacking Magara was also a direct insult and attack to the Gusii community and therefore warned that they were not going to take the matter lightly. ALSO READ:

Why Nyamira County is on its sick bed The political leaders over the weekend claimed that the skewed funding to the Judiciary in this year’s financial budget by the Treasury was a revenge mission which they said was sketched after the nullified August 7 Presidential polls. “Nyamira MCA’s for example are fighting with the Executive to have each of the wards allocated Sh64 million for development. How then can a whole Government minister allocate a paltry Sh50 million for Judiciary?” Nyamoko asked. At the same time, the leaders said some people whom they did not mention were tuned towards edging Dr Matiangi out of the inner circles of the Government. The Mps noted that immediately the Supreme Court nullified the presidential elections, top jubilee leaders vowed that they were going to deal with Maraga and now we have seen that happening. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Speaking during a fund drive in aid of Magwagwa Catholic Church in North Mugirango constituency on Sunday, Momanyi said that there are three arms of the government and questioned why the judiciary arm was allocated very little money compared to the executive and legislative arms of the Government. “For those who have ears and eyes, it goes without say that the reduction of the budget was a clear target against Maraga but not the judiciary “Momanyi stated. Momanyi who is a parliamentary service commissioner warned that as leaders from the Gusii Community, they could not allow the national government to ridicule Maraga who is one of their luminaries from the community. Nyamoko said that the funds the judiciary was demanding was not for Maraga’s personal use but for the judiciary as an institution which is an arm of the government. ALSO READ:

Why everyone wants a slice of Borabu scheme, land of light The MCA’s who were led by the leader of the majority Mr Duke Masira (Township), Charles Barongo (Bomwagamo), Fred Nyachae (Magwagwa), Thaddeus Nyabaro (Ekerenyo) called for the unity of the community’s leaders so that they can stand at a better position of protecting their people and the community when being mistreated by the national government. 