From Left: Senators Malachy Ekal Imana (Turkana), Gideon Moi (Baringo), Enoch Wambua (Kitui), Alice Milgo (Nominated) and Samuel Poghisio (West Pokot) at Kasiluni in Kitui County on August 21, 2018. The committee urged Communications Authority of Kenya to ensure mobile network connectivity in bandit prone areas of Kitui County to bolster security. [Photo: Philip Muasya, Standard] The communications regulator has been asked to enhance mobile phone connectivity in Kitui County. Members of the Senate Committee on ICT yesterday said enhancing use of mobile phones would help combat attacks in bandit-prone areas. The committee toured Ngomeni and Kasiluni in Mwingi North constituency, are affected by bandit attacks. The attacks have been blamed on Somali pastoralists who cross into Kenya through Garissa and Tana River counties in search of water and pasture. Pastoralists have, over the years, fought with the local community over watering points and pasture. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The situation, according to residents, has been compounded by lack of telephone connectivity which makes reporting and responding to attacks difficult. "We have no way of communicating with the security teams during attacks due to lack of connectivity. We are often left at the mercy of the attackers,” said John Ndumbu, the chairman of the local Nyumba Kumi group. Bolstering security Senator Gideon Moi, the chairman of the committee, noted that telephone connectivity would play in important role in bolstering security. He urged the Communications Authority of Kenya (CAK) to ensure that all insecurity hotspots were connected. “It goes without saying that without mobile connectivity, security is compromised. We have seen what you go through because we are also unable to make calls. The committee will ensure the right thing is done so that this region can get connected,” Gideon said. Other senators present were Enoch Wambua (Kitui), Samuel Poghisio (West Pokot), Issa Juma Boy (Kwale) Malachy Ekal Imana (Turkana) and Alice Milgo (Nominated). Officials from CAK were also present. The committee had on Monday toured Nguuku and Tharaka wards, also in Mwingi North. The two wards are not covered by mobile connectivity. Mr Wambua said lack of connectivity in the conflict-prone areas had caused the loss of many lives. "The lives could have been saved had there been mobile phone connection," said Wambua. Phone connectivity He added: “With mobile phone connectivity, we also expect enrolment in schools to improve as security stabilises. We want a Kenya where people can go about their business without fear." Senator Gideon promised to build a solar powered borehole for residents of Kasiluni. He said he would implement the project in partnership with his Kitui counterpart.