Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala has dropped the strongest hint that he could be returning to elective politics on account of his experience. Balala declared yesterday that all options are open and if a political seat comes his way “I will take it up.” “If tomorrow I am appointed prime minister of the Republic of Kenya, I will take it up,” he said. He announced that his recent reconciliation with Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho is genuine. The CS added that he, Joho, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi and other Coast leaders are united in ending “contaminated politics” and are grooming the next generation of Coast leaders besides discussing the region’s future in national politics. He said the leaders are engaged in unity of purpose to forge the next chapter. However, Balala urged Kenyans to shun the 2022 succession politics and instead focus on national healing in the wake of the March 9 handshake to create a favourable climate for economic and social development. He said this was key to ensure affordable healthcare, boost infrastructure growth, education and clean water provision in the next four years. “All options are open for all of us but we are not going to focus on politics for now because politics can be destructive and divisive. We are trying to reform our politics,” he added. The CS noted that Joho and Kingi possess unique strengths that should be harnessed for the betterment of the region and national politics. The governors are serving their last terms while Balala is serving his second stint in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s second Cabinet. The CS sparked debate on social media following his recent rapprochement with Joho and meetings with the two governors. On three occasions, he has declared his intention to partner with the governors to boost the coastal economy. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. “We (Balala, Joho and Kingi) are only retiring from our current positions. We can sit down and discuss our next move,” Balala said when asked about his ties with the governors. “We want to groom the next generation of politicians and strategise about how to profit from the sharing of the national pie,” he said. Balala, who lost the Mombasa senatorial race in 2013 after a stint as Mvita MP, has also declared that his rivalry with Joho is over. The CS spoke to Saturday Standard on a wide range of issues, including the March 9 handshake, the 2022 succession politics, war on graft, relationship with Joho and how he has managed to survive as a top technocrat or high level politicians in the regimes of former Presidents Moi, Kibaki and now Uhuru Kenyatta. He said he has managed to serve in these regimes in high posts because “I drew certain red lines that I cannot cross.” Balala declared that he has never been corrupt and has learnt never to burn bridges and search for power through violence. “I drew the line against greed. When you are content with what you have you will never be involved in corruption. I will not kill literally or in any other way to get political title.” But despite showing interest in elective politics Balala, denounced the current debate on the 2022 succession politics characterising it as “irritating”, premature and an unwelcome distraction from the momentum of reform, economic transformation and national cohesion and healing in the wake of last year’s divisive elections. He said a free media and new “effective processes” and political will has enabled the anti-graft crusade to take off well. “Agitation for 2022 is irritating because most people want economic development. We can just enter a ceasefire in politics and say we are going to concentrate on the Big Four, wealth creation and this nation will prosper.” 