Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti has threatened to sack his cabinet members who have intentions to sabotage his leadership. Awiti argued that there were some of his County Executive Committee (CEC) members who demonstrate laxity in his administration to undermine his leadership. Speaking when he opened Miriu Level Four hospital in Karachuonyo Constituency,  the governor said he will be the one to blame if any of his CEC member fails to deliver. “There are people who sleep on their jobs because the Governor is the to blame in case of any failure. This is tantamount to sabotaging my administration,” said Awiti. The Governor said the only remedy he had was to sack the officials. “I am not joking because the people of Homa Bay need services. I will sack any of my ministers found sleeping on their job because they were appointed to serve the people,” said the Governor. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The statement of sacking was opened by Awiti’s Deputy Hilton Orata who said their administration will not fail due to CECs with ill minds. “We are not ready to let any county official fail to deliver services to Homa Bay resident. We will show you the door to let another person who can serve residents effectively take the post,” said Orata. Awiti ordered the CECs to complete various pending development projects in their dockets. According to the governor, each of CEC will be allocated funds to their dockets to enable them initiate and complete development projects across the county. Awiti told his CECs to be ready to step down if they are unable to help the county realize development goals. He ordered Trade CEC Carelus Ademba to complete multimillion projects namely Kigoto maize mill and Animal feed projects in Suba South and Homa Bay Town Constituencies. The governor further told county residents to register their complaints against the CECs who don’t deliver. Awiti told residents to be patient in waiting for some development project because they receive little funds from the National Treasury. “Even Rome was not built in a day. Let the residents be patient but we are going to ensure some of our flagship projects such the Kigoto maize mill operate in November this year,” he added. 