  For the second day running, Deputy President William Ruto maintained a hard-line political stance, accusing unnamed political detractors of plotting a hate campaign to derail his presidential quest. And as he spoke at Namanjalala market in Kwanza constituency, NASA leader Raila Odinga’s allies were asking Kenyans to prepare for a Raila presidency with President Uhuru Kenyatta in a prominent political position. ALSO READ:

Four MPs defend Ruto, Waiguru over graft claims In his tirade against an opinion poll that rated him as the most corrupt leader in the eyes of those polled, Ruto said his political enemies are scared of his presidential candidature and have resorted to dirty schemes. He was commissioning the construction of Lessos-Namanjalala-Kolongolo road. “My political detractors have turned to baseless allegations, including polls to taint my name and derail my presidential bid because they are not happy with my development track record and are unable to measure up to my brand of politics,” said Ruto. The DP, who was accompanied by MPs Ferdinand Wanyonyi (Kwanza), Janet Nangabo (Trans Nzoia), David Pkosing (Pokot South) and Joshua Kuttuny [Cherangany) said continued political hatred and schemes will not stop him from serving Kenyans. Ruto accused the opposition of sponsoring the Ipsos opinion to portray him as corrupt. “My competitors are making headlines in the newspapers using my name. All these will be read and dumped. These people have no idea how to help the country move ahead and they will not stop me,” he said. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Yesterday, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati, a Raila ally, sensationally claimed the Constitution would be changed to make President Kenyatta a Prime Minister when he leaves State House at the expiry of his two terms. “Kenyans should prepare for the new power line up. Raila will be President in 2022 with President Uhuru serving as his Prime Minister,” said Mr Arati, a close ally of Raila’s. “Those who are opposed to this should start getting used to it early enough.” But Ruto termed his political critics as failures and selfish leaders who are greedy of power. ALSO READ:

Ekuru: Why we want ‘building bridges taskforce’ disbanded “They are wasting time. I’m ahead of them and their dirty game will not stop me,” he said. Commissioning the 52km project, Ruto said the government will spend Sh12 billion to tarmac 217km of road in the county. He said other roads to be constructed are Moi’s Bridge-Moiben, Kaplamai-Sibanga-Maili Saba, Kitale-Endebess-Suam road and Moi’s Bridge-Kipsigarai-Marakwet road. 