A man who was caught on video battering his wife has been jailed for 12 years. Daudi Nzomo was sentenced yesterday after he pleaded guilty to assaulting his wife, Evelyn Winfred Mwende, in Makueni County. ALSO READ:

Wife batterer Nzomo pleads guilty A probation report tabled in a Makueni court described the accused as a violent person who had been beating his parents and wife since 2013. Senior Resident Magistrate James Mwaniki, who handed down the stiff sentence, cited the need to discourage cases of domestic vi A non-custodial sentence was ruled out following the review of a victim's impact report as well as Nzomo's criminal record. The magistrate said according to a Kenya Police Medical Report Form presented in court, Ms Mwende sustained severe head injuries. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Domestic violence “The court is also taking into account the increasing number of domestic violence (cases) in this country where those supposed to love and protect their loved ones have turned against them," said Mr Mwaniki. Before issuing the verdict, the magistrate said he had considered the victim’s mitigation that he was the sole family breadwinner. But he added that given the gravity of the offence, he was compelled to give the stiff jail term. “This court looks at the provisions of the Protection against Domestic Violence Act and the circumstances in which the offence was committed. Taking into account all these considerations, it is the finding of the court to give the period to serve in prison. And for the above reasons, the accused person deserves a cumulative sentence of 12 years; 10 years in prison and two years of probation upon release," the magistrate ruled. ALSO READ:

Man beheads wife with a sickle The court ruled that the probation period would enable Nzomo to assimilate back into the community. Social support “The remainder of the two years of probation will enable him to get guidance and counselling, and social support to integrate back into the family and the community,” Mwaniki said. Nzomo was given 14 days to appeal. Mwende is admitted in the Nairobi Women’s Hospital. Nzomo was captured on video beating and kicking his wife in Kyaaka village in Makueni on July 30. After a public outcry, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji ordered the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to look for Nzomo and have him arraigned. ALSO READ:

Man kills pregnant wife and son Nzomo, who had gone underground after the incident, was arrested in Nguuni in Kibwezi West.