  Shock engulfed a prayer gathering in Uhonya Village, Siaya County, after a 38-year-old woman and her two children were founddead inside a makeshift tent in the church compound. Anna Mwajuma and her sons Dan Onyango, 12, and Lawrence Onyango, 8, are  suspected to have suffocated after inhaling carbon monoxide from a jiko. ALSO READ:

DPP cries foul over Solai dam case North West Gem Location Chief Barrack Opondo said Mwajuma and her two children had attended an annual prayer conference at God’s Last Appeal Church. Makeshift camp Mwajuma and her two sons, who hail from Mulaha sub-location in Alego-Usonga, had erected a makeshift camp where they spent Tuesday night as they attended a prayer meeting. “They were not seen the whole of Wednesday only for their bodies to be discovered in the tent at around 9pm,” said the chief. The bodies were taken to Siaya County Referral Hospital mortuary for post-mortem as investigations were launched. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Yesterday, grief stricken church members suspended their prayer meetings to condole with the family as the police moved to investigate the cause of their deaths. “We suspect it may have been suffocation but we will explore other possible causes. The post mortem report will give us the cause of death,” said a police officer involved in the investigations but who asked for anonymity. Church officials declined to speak to the media about the matter, saying they had  briefed the police. Elsewhere, a 38-year-old man was on Thursday found dead inside a guesthouse at Ndori market in Rarieda sub-county. ALSO READ:

Five people killed in three fire incidents The body of Habil Omondi was found dangling from the ceiling with a bed sheet around his neck. Sources at the restaurant said the deceased, who was reported to be from Kisumu County, bought a bottle of soda before proceeding to the room. North Ramba Assistant Chief Maurice Omondi said the body was discovered by staff who broke into the room when no one responded to their calls. “The deceased left no suicide note and we are not able to establish what might have led him to take away his life,” Omondi said. 