 Senate Security Committee chairman Yusuf Haji when he visited Patel dam tragedy victims at Solai secondary school on May 14,2018.The senate security committee also visited the scene. [Photo:Kipsang Joseph/Standard] ALSO READ:

Any law that causes more harm than good to citizens is not law The Garissa senator acquired squatters' land when he was serving as the Coast provincial commissioner in the 1990s, a public inquest into historical land injustices has heard. The squatters said they wanted the 84 acres they claimed Garissa Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji acquired and sold to a charitable organisation repossessed and returned to them. The National Land Commissioner (NLC) started a public inquiry into historical land injustices at the Coast on Tuesday. The commission is investigating all land disputes since 1895, when the Kenyan Coast was taken over from its Omani rulers, through the post-independence era. Haji (pictured) and the charitable organisation he allegedly sold the land to were notified of impending adverse testimony against them and invited to yesterday's proceedings, but neither came nor sent a representative. Sh4.8 million Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The family of Kazungu Moli claimed yesterday the senator acquired the land in the 1990s and later sold it to the Sheikh Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan Charitable and Humanitarian Foundation. In a presentation before NLC’s committee on historical land injustices, a member of the family, Mr Harry Chogo, claimed the PC sold the land (Majaoni settlement scheme) for Sh4.8 million. He said residents were living on it. Mr Chogo said Sheikh Zayed has since leased the land to African University Trust of Kenya (AUTK), which has constructed the Mombasa International University (MIU) at a cost of about Sh500 million. ALSO READ:

3,000 squatters to be settled after deal with investor He made the presentation to the NLC committee chaired by Commissioner Samuel Tororei at the Kenya School of Government. “We are facing eviction threats from AUTK, which has several times told us it would deploy bulldozers to bring down our houses,” said Chogo. The claimants want the original title deed for plot number MN/I/5141 cancelled and the land reverted to them. Dr Tororei said AUTK and Senator Haji would be given an opportunity to respond. “The other parties did not come and we will therefore give them a chance to respond to the claimants,” Tororei said, after Chogo appeared for the second day yesterday. Chogo said the family currently has about 250 members living on the land. His father, Kazungu Moli, 85, attended the hearing.  ALSO READ:

State orders Kilifi squatters to leave salt firms