Hospitals in the county have been stocked with drugs worth Sh26 million, the governor has said. Mr Wycliffe Oparanya said the county had received drugs worth Sh12.03 million from the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency (Kemsa) three weeks ago, which had been dispatched to all health facilities. ALSO READ:

Complete stalled projects: MCA He was speaking on Saturday during the burial of Dyphina Achitsa, a sister of Shinyalu MP Kizito Mugalia, at Marengo grounds in Lugari sub-county. The governor said another Sh10.6 million was spent on medical supplies for specialised surgeries. “We also have local firms contracted by the county government to give us drugs when the stocks run out before Kemsa brings in a new consignment. Local suppliers delivered drugs worth Sh3.6 million last month and the medicines were supplied to all healthfacilities in the county,” said Oparanya. He said the county had procured the services of local suppliers to ensure there was no interruption in services due to shortage of drugs, especially when the National Treasury delayed the disbursing funds.  According to Oparanya, the county has also put in place measures to ensure that drugs are not stolen by unscrupulous medical practitioners, adding that anyone found doing so would be prosecuted. The governor urged residents to seek services at the Kakamega Teaching and Referral Hospital. “We now have state-of-the-art equipment for treating cancer and kidney and skin diseases,” he said. Oparanya said the MRI and CT scan machines, which had broken down, had been replaced. ALSO READ:

Laboso pleads with staff over salaries “These services are available at the referral hospital. Patients will no longer pay large sums for these services in private clinics. The facility is now providing specialised surgeries and critical care services,” Oparanya said. Governor Oparanya added that the county government would spend Sh60 million in the 2018/19 financial year to register poor and vulnerable families in the National Hospital Insurance Fund. 