Kenya Fluorspar Company MD Nico Spangenberg (Right) supervises a blasting operation at the company's mining site in Kimwarer, Elgeyo Marakwet County. [File, Standard] Divisions among residents displaced by flourspar mining activities could hamper their compensation demands. The Kerio Valley residents have formed three groups with each giving conflicting demands to the Government. The groups, which represent over 4,000 members, have coalesced into the Kewapmwen, Kabokbok and Sugutek factions with each purporting to represent the community's interests. Whereas the Kewapmwen group wants to retain their land, their Kabokbok counterparts are seeking money from the State so they can relocate. The Sugutek faction, on the other hand, claim they are the community's genuine representatives and should be allowed to negotiate on behalf of members. “There is need for all members to speak with one voice. Why should others rush to the National Land Commission and negotiate their way yet the reality is that we have to move from the mining area and engage the Government for either land for land or a cash settlement? Such divisions are roadblocks that will eventually delay the process,” said Joseph Kandie, the Sugutek group chairman. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. But Kewapwen group chair Joseph Kipyego said they were not interested in cash payments. “We have already presented a memorandum to the NLC to be allowed to stay in our ancestral land because it has not been earmarked for the extraction of flourspar." Kabokbok group leader Philemon Cheboi said: "We are ready to move out of the mining area after we receive our compensation. The talks should centre around how much we shall be awarded per acre and on the investment on our land." Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos urged the three factions to harmonise their demands. “We need this issue to be addressed well. It should be to the advantage of locals. As leadership, we must sit down with land owners before making decisions,” he said. 