Seven people have been admitted to the Kakamega Referral Hospital after a machete-wielding gang struck at Shamoni village in Malava. According to residents, the gang attacked the village in the middle of the night on Sunday and fled in the early hours of the morning. ALSO READ:

Health facilities get medicines worth Sh26m Victims suffered cuts. The gang also robbed a nearby shop and made away with an unknown amount of money. The owner of the shop, John Ambani, was slashed several times on the head. His wife and children were also attacked, then tied up with ropes. Mr Ambani's brother, Reuben, joined neighbours to try and help, but the group was ambushed. "The gang of more than 10 people first attacked my brother, his wife and children. A priest, Andrew Sudi, and I went to rescue him but the gang cut us on the head, back, and limbs. They also hit us with a rungu," Reuben said. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Speaking in hospital, Racheal Nekesa said the gang demanded money. “If you answered that you did not have any, they cut men with a panga and the women were beaten,” she said. Enock Ambale said the gang members threatened to kill anyone who shouted for help. “Police patrols should be frequent, the matter investigated and all administrative units put to task on insecurity matters. How can women be beaten and children subjected to torture by being tied up with ropes and no officer was on the ground? We are appealing for security to be beefed up since the gang came from a neighbouring village in Ifwetere area,” he said. ALSO READ:

Co-wives battle on husband's grave yard According to a medical officer at the hospital, Kennedy Masika, only one of the seven victims was in serious condition. “We have managed to stabilise them and they are all out of danger,” said Mr Masika, adding that the victims had cuts on the head, arms and legs. “There is one patient who, after doing a CT scan, appears to have a fracture on the skull. We have admitted the patient for further observation," he said. South Kabras MCA Samson Tali condemned the attack and asked police to speed up their investigations and bring the suspects to book. Subjected to torture "Insecurity in this area has been alarming in the past weeks. People are being robbed and women and children are being subjected to torture. Police need to find new ways to handle this before the situation gets worse," Mr Tali said Malava OCPD Peter Mwanzo said officers were hunting the suspects. “We are investigating the matter and I am sure the suspects will be arrested soon." ALSO READ:

Complete stalled projects: MCA 