 Five people have been shot and injured at the burial Likuyani MP Enock Kibunguchy's driver in Kiminini, Trans Nzoia County. ALSO READ:

Venezuelan President survives 'assassination' attempt The five including a Member of County Assembly (MCA), two bodyguards assigned to MPs and a mourner were shot in the confrontation between a rowdy crowd and the police. According to eye witnesses, trouble started when Kakamega Sports CEC Robert Makhanu arrived at the burial but was heckled away. The injured have been rushed to the nearby Kimilili dispensary. The funeral was attended by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula, Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu, Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi and other leaders. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Where it began Kibunguchy’s driver, Douglas Wakachi was killed by gunmen who stormed into a popular night club outside Soy Highway Motel, Kakamega County to search for the lawmaker. The MP said he was the target of assassination during the August 12 night attack. He added he had finished meeting his constituents at the club, when he sent his driver to start his car parked outside the entertainment joint. The driver was, however, ambushed by the attackers, who fatally shot him before rushing back to the hotel to look for the MP. "The driver met the thugs at the parking lot and they shot him dead. They then ran back to the hotel, and ordered everyone to lie down," said the MP, who was clearing his bill when the gang walked in. The 11pm attack would have resulted into more casualties were it not for the quick thinking of the club's entertainment manager Edwin Lussa, who switched off the lights as the rifle-wielding men were asking for the MP. “After shooting dead the driver at the parking lot, they made their way into the hotel and ordered us to lie down. I quickly dashed to where the switch was and switched off the lights. That must have scared them away,” Mr Lussa said. Lussa noted the gunmen rushed back to the MP’s vehicle, pulled out the driver who was slumped dead on the steering wheel and made away with the vehicle. They later abandoned the vehicle at a nearby Kipsomba village. Another witness, Natahn Mutembesi, said he saw the attackers walk into the club, moments after gunshots sounded outside. "We were ordered to lie down and we heard the attackers asking for the MP. It was at this point that the lights went off," he said. More to follow.