IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati addresses the press after Post Election Evaluation workshop in Kisumu County. [Photo: Collins Oduor, Standard] A candidate in the Baringo South by-election has accused her opponent of giving bribes ahead of today's by-election. ALSO READ:

Jubilee Senator campaigns for ODM candidate Cynthia Kipchilat, who is vying for the seat on a Maendeleo Chap Chap ticket, claimed top county officials allied to Jubilee Party candidate Charles Kamuren have been bribing voters. "There is a lot of vote buying. Top Government officials have been camping here, even after campaigns ended, just to bribe voters,” said Dr Kipchilat. "My opponent said he would use Government machinery to ensure he wins the seat. However, I call on my supporters to keep calm," said the former university lecturer. But Mr Kamuren denied the claims. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 "Being a Jubilee candidate does not guarantee me victory," said the former Kenya National Union of Teachers official. He also denied that Government agents were bribing voters on his behalf. The seat fell vacant following the death of former MP Grace Kipchoim. Meanwhile, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has assured residents of a free and fair election. Constituency Returning Officer Paul Kones also said there would be enough security to ensure voting was smooth. ALSO READ:

Migori senate race kicks off as ODM warns rebels "This area has experienced insecurity for some time now but the security team has provided us with enough police. Each of the 132 polling stations will have two police officers," Mr Kones said yesterday. "We have taken all the necessary measures to ensure that the by-election goes well and urge residents to come out and vote." Kones said all registered voters, including those at Eldume Camp, would be given an opportunity to cast their ballots. Plans were underway to deliver voting materials to two polling stations on an island in Lake Baringo yesterday. Baringo South has 132 polling stations and 35,162 registered votes. 