Two Nyandarua County executive Committee members on Saturday survived an impeachment over allegations of corruption. The two, Maru Mugwanja (finance) and Ruth Wamuiya (trade and cooperatives) were being probed over the loss of over 60 million paid to fictitious companies in the last financial year. ALSO READ:

We all need to remove the log from our eye The assembly on Saturday during a special meeting heard a petition that had been forwarded by four human rights activists demanding their removal from office. Among the funds that was alleged to have been lost was Sh46 million, grant for polytechnic students from the national government. Also in their claims was Sh.13 million that had been paid to fictitious companies for the invetors conference that was never held. A special committee led by Gatimu ward MCA Kieru Wambui was convened to investigate the matter and tabled the report on Saturday recommending their removal from office but was shot down. 23 MCAs who were said to be aligned to Governor Francis Kimemia opposed the motion while 15 voted for it. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 This has been seen as a battle between Speaker of the assembly Ndegwa Wahome and the Governor. While tabling the motion, Keiru claimed that the county had lost the money due to the incompetence of the Cec in charge of finance Ms Mugwanja. He said that the member had signed the payment of the money to companies associated to senior officials for an event that was never held. ALSO READ:

Pressure piles on NLC bosses to resign “There was no investors’ conference that was held in the county in the last financial year and yet the executive paid for its services. This is total corruption which we will not allow,” he said. He claimed that the executive also misused Sh.46 million that the county had received as a grant from the national government for needy students but did not use it appropriately. Education committee chairman Sambigi Mukuria claimed that the students got a share of Sh3000 only and not Sh1500 as recommended by the national government. MCAs who supported the motion accused Governor Francis Kimemia of bribing a section of them at a hotel in Naivasha on Friday night. “They are extending bribery and corruption even outside the county. The Wanjikus of the county have now witnessed what we have been saying all along that corruption I really thriving in this county,” noted Kieru. The Governor could however note be reached to react to these claims.  ALSO READ:

Fear, anxiety as EACC raids Nyanza counties