NSSF CEO Dr.Anthony Omerikwa(R) and Acting General Manager Coperate Affairs Austine Ouko when they appeared before the Senate Committee on Roads over Hazina Towers at Parliament on Wednesday 11/07/18. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] Imperial Bank and Chase Bank have cleaned out workers’ pension to the tune of Sh1 billion following their collapse. ALSO READ:

Kenyan workers stare at Sh1 billion loss A report by the Auditor General for the year 2017 forced National Social Security Fund (NSSF) bosses to acknowledge they sunk Sh996 million in bonds and fixed deposits that are no longer recoverable. This is about two months’ worth of contributions for the 2.5 million members with monthly deductions of Sh200. Likely losses Auditor General Edward Ouko has in his latest report explained the extent of likely losses which he blamed on poor management by private wealth management firms. He wants the four fund managers who were paid Sh182 million last year dropped and new ones selected. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “The fund does not appear to have received value for money…,” Ouko says in his new audit report. Several companies have lost billion in Chase Bank and Imperial Bank including CIC Insurance, Liberty Insurance and Sanlam have been forced to write off the debts. In a report, the Capital Markets Authority also indicated that some of the key investment managers lost Sh4.2 billion last year alone over the suspension of Chase Bank, Imperial Bank bonds and the poor operating environment. Equity Investment Bank lost Sh1.7 billion, while Britam Investment Funds under its management fell from Sh9.3 billion to Sh8 billion. ALSO READ:

NSSF plan to go after six per cent of your salary hits a snag Ghengis Capital, which was affiliated to Chase Bank at the time of the lender’s collapse, booked a 22 per cent drop in assets, which fell from Sh700 million to Sh545 million. NSSF fund managers were only able to collect Sh26 million from the failed banks, just about an eighth of the amount they invested. Ouko said the losses could have been averted had the investments been insured, as is practice in his advisory to kick out the firms. “It is recommended that the fund managers be changed on expiry of their contracts,” reads the report that would next be presented to the National Assembly recently. Sh667 million was lent to the banks in bonds while Sh330 million was held in term deposits with varying maturity dates that are all past. Old Mutual, Britam, Stanlib and GenAfrica are the firms contracted to manage and invest the workers’ savings worth about Sh210 billion. Ouko faulted NSSF for concealing the exposure in its financial reporting. Other avenues where the retirement savings were at risk include the extension of the Hazina Trade Centre in Nairobi.  ALSO READ:

Britam to pay off Sh6b bond early 