Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen) is set to resume its services and support various community development projects along the Turkwel corridor in West Pokot County. The Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) Energy Ministry, Simon Kachapin observed that for the last five years, peace and harmony has prevailed in the area thus the company can move in and embark on projects that had stalled due to insecurity. ALSO READ:

Fishing, the next front for pastoralist farmers "There is now peace in the region. The corporation will now carry on with its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities in the area and uplift livelihoods within KenGen neighbourhoods," said Kachapin. The Pokot and Turkana communities have for a long time been engaged in protracted armed raids across their common border thus impacting negatively on their socio-economic activities within Kengen operation area. Kachapin expressed the remarks when he visited the Turkwel power generating plant in West Pokot County over the weekend. He added that the technical team will be sent to the ground to ascertain the amount of funds needed for the renovation of various structures destroyed during the time of insecurity in the region.  The CAS said all employees of Kengen who had moved away from the area due to insecurity will be returned back to Turkwel. "We are aware that many structures and equipment were vandalized during insecurity situation in the area and require large amounts of money. The ministry will send a technical team to the ground to assess the extent of destruction," said Kachapin. Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto who was also present, disclosed that Kengen had allocated Sh 4.3 million for the construction of dormitories in two schools at the Turkwel gorge. Moroto said Sh3.8 million will be used in the construction of dormitories at Turkwel gorge primary school while Sh0.5 million for a dormitory at the Turkwel gorge secondary school. ALSO READ:

Release Sh14b equalisation funds, State told Joshua Choge, chairman board of directors Kengen singled out insecurity as one of the major challenges which the company had faced in the provision of corporate social responsibility to the community. Choge said there are plans by the company to assist in putting up structures in various schools around the power plant, saying the company will also support in provision of piped water, relief food during drought among other things to the locals. "Kengen has good plans for the community within the Turkwel power plant. The company will put up centre of excellent in the area. It will supply electricity to homesteads around, empower youth in employment and business among other things," said the chairman. Previously local leaders had criticized the power plant stating that the locals had not benefited since the construction of the Turkwel generating plant. The power plant is one of the major hydro-electric power stations in the country. It was constructed to produce electricity, for agricultural activities through irrigation, fisheries and tourism development.  ALSO READ:

County adopts new marketing slogan