 Deputy President William Ruto has accused his opponents of waging a hate campaign to derail his presidential bid. ALSO READ:

Ruto: Why am I a punching bag? Mr Ruto spoke yesterday when he hosted Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru at his Karen home on the day an opinion poll suggested that the two were perceived to be the most corrupt leaders. “These constant, perennial, unending headlines about William Ruto this… William Ruto that… opinion poll this… corruption that… are all propaganda. I want to tell them that when they are through with the headlines, corruption and propaganda, let us meet at the development arena of the people of Kenya,” Ruto said. Ruto, who hopes to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022, dismissed the Ipsos Synovate findings as sponsored by his opponents. He alleged that ‘evil forces’ were pushing the narrative that the source of his wealth was questionable to undermine his bid for high office. And on his official Twitter handle, the DP was even more scathing in his criticism of his perceived detractors. Devil's gospel Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “Those running injili ya shetani (the devil's gospel) that unless your father was a minister, a vice president or a president, however hard you work, must remain poor – and if not a pauper, you must be corrupt and have stolen – they should know that those without godfathers, we have God the Father,” Ruto said. He further tweeted: “We will not allow them to mislead us and take us to the arena that has no benefit for anybody. An arena of fake news, fake opinion polls and fake stories of headlines. The real contest is the Standard Gauge Railway, roads, electricity, water, equipping our hospitals and technical colleges. This is what matters for the ordinary person.” Ms Waiguru, who it is speculated is among those being considered as Ruto’s running mate, was accompanied by 33 members of the Kirinyaga County Assembly. She, too, lashed out at the pollsters and promised to support the DP in his quest to be president in 2022. ALSO READ:

Electing corrupt leaders no big deal to Kenyans "Even though we were advised to stop politicking, those attacking us only make us stronger going forward,” the governor said, adding that she would sue the pollster ‘for running a smear campaign against her’. Waiguru resigned from the Cabinet in 2015 on the back of public protests after the loss of hundreds of millions of shillings in the National Youth Service, which was under her Devolution docket. “I have had enough. Ipsos is being used by politicians to taint my name because they are worried about 2022. They have seen that Kirinyaga County is progressing and they are upset,” she claimed. The latest camaraderie between the two marks a turnaround for the two leaders who had bitterly clashed at the height of the NYS scandal in 2015. At one point, Ruto had charged that Waiguru should not be allowed to ‘cat walk’ and use colourful language but instead she should be put to task to explain how the money was lost on her watch. Sue Raila Waiguru has insisted she did nothing wrong and cited the fact that she was never charged in court over the scandal as proof she was innocent. She even sued ODM leader Raila Odinga and former Machakos senator Johnstone Muthama for defamation over the matter. The case is pending in court. Speaking later in Kisii while meeting leaders in Deputy Governor Joash Maangi's residence, Ruto reiterated that he would not be distracted by his critics and told his opponents to prepare for a bruising battle ahead. ALSO READ:

Ipsos: How un-employed Kenyans make their money He said he would not waste time arguing with people who wanted to use shortcuts to ascend to power. “Let them tell us what they were able to do when they were in power. Let them prepare for a tough battle ahead." The DP said those questioning the source of his wealth should tell Kenyans where they have been banking theirs. "I will not any time soon stop my support to put up churches and schools across the country. My money is properly put into use. Those who believe in witchcraft should relax and watch as God does his wonders," he added. Ruto said the Government would continue supporting the counties in their push for more development. "In the last six years of our leadership, we have put massive resources in the modernisation of roads and intensified power connectivity to households and businesses. Our goal is to make Kenya business-friendly and attract foreign investments." He added that the Government would give 30 milk coolers to Kirinyaga, saying this would enable farmers to earn more and create employment opportunities for the youth. “All this has been possible because we have discarded the old-fashioned politics of tribalism and division,” Ruto said. Kirinyaga Assembly Majority Leader Kamau Murango said they were committed in their support for Ruto. ALSO READ:

Ruto's forays into Western Kenya wasted effort “This is not a debt the people of Mt Kenya would be paying, but fulfilling a promise made,” Mr Murango said. 