Absent parents, compromised school authorities, careless transporters and lacklustre enforcement agencies have been blamed for the spate of accidents involving school buses that has killed tens of children and left dozens more injured. Last Saturday night, 10 primary school children from a school trip to Mombasa died near Mwingi Town, barely three kilometres from St Gabriel Primary School, their final destination. ALSO READ:

Ministry official warns schools, teachers against holiday tuition Tragically, this was not the first of such accidents. Even scarier, data trends predict that this will not be the last as the unholy union of nonchalant parenting, careless school authorities and poor enforcement all conspire to condemn Kenya’s children to deadly bus rides every day. New guidelines Most of these deaths occur on the backdrop of new guidelines issued by the National Transport and SafetyAuthority (NTSA). Like most rules and regulations, these remain good on paper and continuously fail to keep children safe. For instance, the regulations dictate the behaviour and responsibilities of the driver, his helper, students as well as the teachers on board. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The regulations also ban all forms of night travel for school busses. The St Gabriel bus crashed at 11pm on its way from Mombasa where the pupils had gone for a study tour. The bus, which at the time had 40 children and four adults, was involved in a head-on collision with a lorry at Kanginga. After the collision, the bus lost control and plunged into the Kanginga river bed. “The trouble with Kenyans is that they do not like to follow rules. Apart from the driver, on most occasions, we have other adults in the bus as well who should take charge and ensure the school regulations are adhered to,” NTSA Director General Francis Meja says. But, it is not just the people on board the buses who should be held responsible. Some say, the responsibility, or lack of it starts with the parents who entrust their children to a transport system that inspires little to no confidence. ALSO READ:

Uhuru tough talk on students road accidents “Many parents do not even know the state of the vehicles that ferry their children to school. Many do not know the drivers they entrust their children to,” Nicholas Maiyo, the chairman of the Natonal Parents Association says. Last year, a pupil was crushed to death after he fell through a gaping hole in the bus’s under carriage. After the incident, it emerged that the hole of the bus belonging to St Augustine School in Mombasa had been covered buy a sheet of PVC carpeting, effectively ensuring the booby trap claimed its first victim. Investigations on the incident indicated that some pupils, who knew about the hole in the bus’s floor told some of their parents who passed on the concerns to the school’sadministration. Promises of action by the school had not been effected by the time the 6-year-old plunged to his death. “We live in an era where parents rarely get involved in the movement of their children. Their interaction with their children’s transport ends with them paying for the service,” Maiyo says. With parents opting to live further from their schools of choice, the need for school transportation has created an unprecedented demand for the service. Although both the NTSA and the NPA have no data on the number of licenced school transporters in Kenya, anecdotal data from both organisations indicate that a high percentage of school going children depend on a form of school transportation for their daily commute. Add in extracurricular activities such as school games, and the school bus becomes one of the single largest public transit systems in the country. ALSO READ:

Students to face full trial for unrest “This may be in form of buses, pooled transportation with other parents or motorbikes,”  Meja says, and not all of them meet the required safety standards. “The Mwingi accident is a clear example of the set rulesand regulations not being adhered to. From the impact, it is clear that the body structure of the bus was weak and not the recommended standard,” Meja says. In May 2017, the NTSA set new regulations that were to be adhered to by all vehicles seeking a Passenger Service Vehicle (PSV) license. Reinforced railings Some of these included the provision of three point shoulder belt restraints for its passengers as well as reinforced steel railings on the sides and most importantly a qualified and vetted driver and the minder for the children. The loophole however was that the new regulations did not affect vehicles previously certified as safe before the ratification of the new laws. Meaning that a majority of buses ferrying children might not be the safest. For law enforcement, the danger even extends further than the threat posed by road accidents. “As a parent do you wonder about your children as they board the big yellow school bus in the morning? How safe are they aboard that big bus? How sure are you that they will get back home,” security expert and lecturer Kibet Ngetich poses. “There are parents who have relegated the duty of running after the school bus to their house helps, and never interact with the service providers.” ALSO READ:

Any classes before 8am and after 3.30pm are illegal Each year, tens of children are treated in hospital emergency rooms for injuries associated with schoolbuses. Then there are the unlucky ones such as the 10 that perished in Mwingi. Or the one who died after the Rapogi Secondary Schoolbus overturned on Bondo-Kisumu road. Or the young kindergarten boy who fell through the bus floor and was crushed. So where does the buck stop? Is it with the police? The school? The parents? “The buck stops with the school management bodies. But parents should take responsibility of their children too and law enforcement should step up and their job,” Meja says. 