Residents of Got-Winyo village in Bondo Sub-County have protested on what they perceive as exorbitant water bills. The residents complained that their water bills shot up suddenly without explanation over a few days. ALSO READ:

Revealed: KRA man's Sh600m wealth on 100k pay Fredrick Odongo, a resident, was shocked to find that his June bill had shot up from Sh500 to Sh7, 189 for domestic water use. Odongo, who spoke to The Standard on Thursday, opted for disconnection since he could not manage to raise the amount for his water bill. “I cannot pay this amount unless I am told how they arrived at the figure. Our taps regularly run dry yet we are being given abnormal bills,” lamented Odongo. Odongo further accused the management of Siaya Bondo Water and Sanitation Company (Sibo) of becoming a business run by individuals, despite it being a public entity. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. He added, “There are staff at Sibo who have water vending shops in the town and they pass the bill to other users who have meters.” He called upon the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to investigate on the company’s activities and its management. Another resident, Rose Atieno however questioned the water meters, which she claimed were faulty and the reason behind the exaggerated meter readings and huge bills. “We have been questioning the modalities used to calculate our water bills. My tap has a problem and I have not received water for more than two weeks yet I was given a bill of Sh25, 000,” she said. ALSO READ:

Decomposing body found in house But Pamela Anyango, who read mischief on the payment receipts vowed to disconnect her water meters to prevent running even higher bills this month. “We were told that the bills would be sent on our phones but we are now surprised that the handwritten bills are being sent to us without reading the water meters,” said Anyango. When contacted for comment, Sibo Manager Mr George Alaka said that he has not received such complaints. “We have established clear communication strategies and any of customers who feel aggrieved should channel the concerns through the system,” said Alaka.   ALSO READ:

Fired employees shouldn't hold public office, says AG