 A family in Mombasa is demanding justice for the death of its kin they claim was beaten to death by a police officer in a love triangle. ALSO READ:

Man handed 20 years for killing wife The family claims the officer attached to Kiembeni police station killed 45-year-old Antony Kinuthia because the deceased was in love with a woman the policemen was also interested in. Police claim they have launched an investigation into the alleged killing. The late Kinuthia’s aunt Miriam Kimemia told The Standard that the deceased was beaten by a police officer after they picked a quarrel over a woman both have been dating. The fight is said to have ensued at Majaoni bar in Kisauni sub County, Mombasa County on Tuesday. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “The officer in question is said to have gone looking for my nephew knowing that they were sharing the same woman. Upon arrival at the place, the officer beat up Kinuthia until he became unconscious,” said Miriam. “My nephew was beaten up and left struggling for his life. It is so unfair that the people who are supposed to make sure we are safe are the same people killing us,” added the aunt. Kimemia said Kinuthia was rushed to a nearby health clinic, by a bar patron. Documents from the clinic indicated that the deceased was brought to the facility by friends while he was unconscious after being assaulted by a person known to him while he was drunk. The doctor then referred the deceased to Coast general hospital after administering first aid on him, where he was pronounced dead on arrival. ALSO READ:

Man sentenced to 20 years for killing city lawyer However, in a twist of events, an OB 51|13|7|2018 recorded at the Kiembeni police station by the bar patron, who is alleged to have witnessed the fight, the deceased is recorded as having died from natural cause. “We are suspecting foul play in our son’s murder and would like the police to investigate the matter in depth. The doctor’s report indicates that he was assaulted but the police OB indicates otherwise,” said Kimemia. Mombasa county police commander Johnston Ipara said they were investigating the matter, adding that no one was above the law. “Allow the postmortem to be conducted, and once done let it wil reveal the cause of death. If indeed the officer assaulted the deceased he will be arraigned in court to face relevant charges”, said Ipara.