 Veteran US senator and war hero John McCain (pictured) - a towering figure in American politics for decades - died yesterday after stopping treatment for brain cancer, one year after the Republican went public with his diagnosis. ALSO READ:

There is no safe level of drinking alcohol, scientists warn He was 81. McCain underwent surgery in July 2017 to remove a blood clot in his brain after being diagnosed with an aggressive tumour called a glioblastoma. It's the same type of tumour that killed Sen Edward Kennedy at age 77 in 2009. The senator's passing marked the end of a 35-year political career that brought the independent-minded Republican within reach of the White House as his party's presidential nominee "It's been quite a ride," McCain, who was tortured during five years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, wrote in a memoir published in May. "I've known great passions, seen amazing wonders, fought in a war and helped make peace. I made a small place for myself in the story of America and the history of my times." Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 McCain, who was being treated at his ranch near Sedona, Arizona, was surrounded by his wife Cindy and his family during his final hours. "He was a great fire who burned bright, and we lived in his light and warmth," said Meghan McCain, one of the senator's seven children - three of them from a previous marriage. Near the driveway to his ranch a sign read 'Sen McCain, thank you for your service'. ALSO READ:

Teenager stands tall in Kilifi village ravaged by cancer In Washington, flags on Capitol Hill and the White House were lowered to half mast in his honour. McCain's body will lie in state in the Capitol rotunda ahead of a funeral ceremony at the National Cathedral, the New York Times reported. He will then lie in state in the Arizona state capitol and be buried at Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Dates for the events have not yet been announced. McCain made it known that he did not want Donald Trump to attend his funeral, US media reported. President Trump, who once mocked McCain's war record, said he sent his "deepest sympathies and respect". A rare Republican critic of Trump, McCain accused the president of "naivete", "egotism" and of sympathising with autocrats. He cast a decisive vote last year that killed Republican attempts to repeal Barack Obama's health care reforms, something Trump never forgave. All living former US presidents lined up to praise McCain's deep integrity. "We are all in his debt," said Obama, the Democrat to whom McCain lost the presidency in 2008. ALSO READ:

Study shows milk, chicken contain dangerous toxins "We shared, for all our differences, a fidelity to something higher - the ideals for which generations of Americans and immigrants alike have fought, marched and sacrificed." McCain "was a man of deep conviction and a patriot of the highest order," said Republican George W. Bush (2001-2009). The senator requested that both Obama and Bush deliver eulogies at his funeral, US media reported. Democrat Bill Clinton (1993-2001) praised McCain, saying he "frequently put partisanship aside," while Republican George H W Bush (1989-1993) hailed him as "a public servant of the rarest courage". McCain "was a man of honour, a true patriot in the best sense of the word," wrote Democrat Jimmy Carter (1977-1981). "Americans will be forever grateful for his heroic military service & his steadfast integrity." McCain spent more than three decades in the Senate, looming large in debates over war and peace and the moral direction of the nation.