 The crackdown that began in Nairobi to rid rivers off of encroachers and free road reserves has been seen a true fight to tame run-away corruption. ALSO READ:

SGR land scam Mombasa Six in 10 Kenyans support the ongoing flattening of buildings on riparian land according to a latest survey. The poll by Infotrak and Africa Centre for Open Governance (AfriCOG) released on Sunday showed the demolitions were backed by a majority from Nairobi County at 75 per cent. The findings also indicated that 94 per cent of the 1,538 respondents welcomed the arrest of individuals implicated in corrupt dealings. It further showed 43 per cent are optimistic the country is headed in the right direction with most citing peace (56 per cent) and the Government’s recent purge on corruption (26 per cent). Another 15 per cent of respondents told the pollster the country was neither headed the right or wrong direction. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Infotrak Chief Executive Officer Angela Ambitho also said peace was the main reason a majority of Kenyans (87 per cent) supported the political truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. “Most Kenyans think the handshake will result in improvements in good governance, electoral and police reforms, upholding of the constitution, respect for human rights and economic growth,” she said. She added: “When it comes to fighting corruption, Kenyans are still skeptical about the commitment of the president and Raila in ensuring the vice is stemmed out. Only 32% are confident in the duos ability to fight corruption”. ALSO READ:

Land owners shut 10 SGR sites as fresh claims of bribery emerge When asked what concerned them most; a majority at 23 per cent said unemployment, followed by corruption and high cost of living both at 21 per cent. Regarding the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), 53 per cent want it disbanded with 45 per cent of them expressing no confidence in the commission as currently constituted. According to the poll, IEBC enjoys a mere 21 per cent public confidence rating whereas Director of Public Prosecution office stands at 39.9 per cent. The survey was carried out between August 20 and 23, 2018 and a margin of error of +/-3 with 95 percent degree of confidence. The poll covered 26 counties through Computer Assisted Telephone Interviews.