A team of five criminal investigators dispatched by the Inspector General of police Joseph Boinnet arrived in Bureti constituency to investigate and resolve the mysterious murder of three people. The team was received at Getarwet village by Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter after residents held day-long protests on Saturday. Sleuths settled down to work at room in the back of a retail shop at Getarwet trading center which was the murder scene of a form one student Elias Rotich. The 16-years-old suffered a fatal a cut wound on his left ear and a rope around his neck having been murdered by unknown people. The murder The entry into their shop was gained by breaking the front door. Nothing was stolen from the shop deepening the murder mystery. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 On Saturday Getarwet village residents barricaded Kericho-Litein highway to protest the state of insecurity in Bureti. The investigators also proceeded to Chesingoro village where Cheborgei high school teacher Willy Sang and his wife Eveline were murdered two weeks ago. The murder mystery of the couple who left behind five young children is yet to be resolved. Kericho senior resident magistrate Solomon Ngetich on Friday ordered four suspects in the murder to be released on police bond after Litein police told the court that they had only managed to gather circumstantial evidence. And yesterday, Erick Mutai, a high school teacher and the late Sang confidante bitterly disputed in front of Bureti Officer Commanding Police Division (OCPD) Mohammed Ali, litein police claims that the couple killers gained entry into Sang’s house through the widow on the fateful night. “As you can see for yourselves, the window panes were not broken. The Litein police bundled the case from day one,” he said. Speaking at the compound, Keter expressed confidence that the new team of investigators from Nairobi will resolve the Bureti murder mysteries. “The team will not leave until they have combed through all the leads in the murder of the form one student at Getarwet secondary school and Cheborgei high school  teacher Willy Sang and his wife Eveline. They are also going to delve into all the other recent murders in Bureti constituency,” he said. The Standard statistics indicate that at least eight unresolved murders in the sub-county. Keter, appealed to area residents with information which could led to the arrest of the murderers on the loose and put a stop to the killings, to volunteer it to the new sleuths. “Anyone with even a little piece of information which could point the investigators to the murders should volunteer it and help resolve the murder mysteries,” he said The Energy CS reminded that those with vital information but fear for their lives will be put under witness protection. “Therefore don’t have any fear, and the state will protect you,” said Keter who was accompanied by Correctional services Principal Secretary Alfred Cheruiyot. The Energy CS at the same time said his minister will launch a street lighting program at Getarwet and other trading centers.