  Deputy President William Ruto has dismissed claims Jubilee Party is divided. This follows claims of a tussle for control of the party by rival groups. Speaking in Kamarich, Nandi County, yesterday, Mr Ruto sought to assure supporters that the party was still united. ALSO READ:

Jubilee on the rocks The Deputy President accused unnamed politicians of trying to destroy his relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta for their own selfish gains. He accused his political rivals of using "misleading newspaper headlines and opinion polls" to undermine Jubilee and its leadership. "The Jubilee house is still intact. As a matter of fact, Jubilee is stronger now than ever before," said Ruto. "I call on all Jubilee supporters to ignore rumours from those preying on their emotions with claims that our party is divided." Some media reports have indicated that Jubilee is on the brink of collapse as key party leaders jostle to take over. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The DP has also been fighting results of a recent poll by Ipsos Synovate that claimed the majority of Kenyans viewed him as the most corrupt leader. "This onslaught is led by malicious political opponents who are known to benefit when Kenyans are divided. But the Jubilee transformation and development agenda has frustrated their malicious agenda," said Ruto. "My political competitors have been using the media and opinion polls to poke holes at my integrity. I want to tell them to continue with the mudslinging. I am only ready to discuss unity and development, nothing else," he added. ALSO READ:

Two allies, one seat but who will Joho support? "I assure our supporters that there is a deeper commitment between the President and I as opposed to what some people want you to believe. We have no business, as Rift Valley leaders, joining the mudslinging bandwagon. We are busy putting our house in order ahead of 2022." Ruto was accompaniey by Lands Cabinet Secretary Faridah Karoney, Chief Administrative Secretary Andrew Tuimur, Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and Senator Kiprotich Cherargei, MPs Cornelly Serem (Aldai), Wilson Kogo (Chesumei) and Julius Meli (Tinderet) among others.