  Three thousand university and college students in Igembe South, Meru, have received Sh30 million in bursaries. Speaking during the inaugural Igembe South Career Day at the weekend, Igembe South MP John Mwirigi said he would help improve education standards in the area. Mr Mwirigi said the high cost of higher education had prevented many deserving students from accessing study opportunities, the reason why he had decided to prioritise bursaries. Hundreds of secondary school and universities students attended the career day where renowned motivational speakers inspired them. “For a long time education standards in this area have not been as good as we would like. I want to create a new dawn, to ensure that transition and retention rates are at 100 per cent. Though funds are scarce to satisfy all students, I decided that each of the 3,000 students got at least Sh10, 000,” said Mr Mwirigi. The youthful legislator who is a final year student at a local university, said that he would assist more students to get scholarships to enable them complete their education as scheduled. “In that regard I have engaged some ambassadors of various countries in Kenya to understand available study opportunities in their universities. My office is helping students to identify available scholarships and how to apply for them,” he said. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 At the same time Mr Mwirigi said part of the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) will be used to improve infrastructure and learning equipment at Kindani and Maua polytechnics. “Not all can have the opportunity to go to university. I am agitating for Kiegoi University to be awarded a charter because it will be the game changer in Igembe South. In the meantime, we are laying emphasis on technical education, so that you can acquire skills for self-employment,” he said. During the event popular comedian MC Jesse (real name Jasper Muthomi), university dons and professionals from the region gave motivational talks. “We will replicate this in all the wards in Igembe South. Many students have become disillusioned because of poverty in their families but we will be there to assist and guide them, to success,” Mwirigi, who said he will be teaching history and Swahili at local schools during the recess. 