A 29-year-old woman in Eldoret is nursing serious injuries after she was allegedly battered by her husband for misusing Sh500 he had left for supper. A three-month pregnant Valerie Masibo was treated at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) and discharged after allegedly enduring two hours of physical assault from her 26-year-old partner on Friday. ALSO READ:

Wife batterer Nzomo pleads guilty The woman’s face and eyes were swollen, and her ears caked with blood. Her partner later told police he was drunk and not in his right mind when he attacked her. But according to the woman, her husband, who worked at a slaughter house, arrived home at 6pm and accused her of misusing money meant to buy meat. He then set on her with kicks and blows and even went to the kitchen and returned with a cooking stick, which he used to beat her. For two hours, she says, he beat her, attracting the attention of neighbours, who called the police. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “I have known him for the last five months. This is the fifth time he has beaten me. I used to forgive him hoping he would change. This time he went too far and the neighbours had to intervene. Home drunk “He came home drunk, locked the doors and started beating me with a shoe and stepping on me. I tried to protect myself but he was too strong. He started pouring cold water on me, undressed me and started beating me everywhere. He took a cooking stick and hit me everywhere,” narrated the woman, who is currently staying with her aunt in an estate in Eldoret.  ALSO READ:

Eldoret Polytechnic scoops overall KETISA games trophy Police are holding the suspect at Ya Mumbi police post and are expected to arraign him in court today. “It is unfortunate to have such a person in the community. It is only by luck that we were informed by neighbours who witnessed the ruthless beating... We forcefully opened the door and found the woman bleeding on the bed,” said Eldoret South OCPD Wilson Abduba. “We will charge him with causing grievous bodily harm considering the degree of injuries she sustained and according to the doctor’s examination result,” he said. Rosemary Kusimba, the victim’s aunt and a nurse at MTRH, said it was not the fist time the man had beaten her. 