Kisumu County Governor Anyang' Nyong'o during a presser on July 02, 2018 where he revealed hat the county cabinet had passed at a chatter proposal that will be debated in the assembly in the coming weeks to uplift Kisumu to city status. [Photo: Denish Ochieng/ Standard] Governor Peter Anyang' Nyong'o has warned Members of the  County Assembly against plans to impeach their Speaker Onyango Oloo. ALSO READ:

MCAs differ over Sh50m disaster emergency fund Prof Nyong'o spoke Sunday as plans to oust Mr Oloo  gathered momentum over claims he was mismanaging the legislative arm of the county. He told the MCAs to embrace alternative dispute resolution mechanisms to settle problems bedevilling the assembly. Impeachment mentality "I am pleading with you to stop this impeachment mentality.  When there is a problem, sit  down and talk. You can only go for impeachment when problems can't be solved through  dialogue," said Nyong'o. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The governor spoke at his Seme Rata rural home, where he and his Kakemega counterpart, Wyclife Oparanya presided over a funds drive at an Anglican Church. "When we sing impeachment too much, it will become monotonous and eventually lose its  meaning," said  Nyong'o. The MCAs last week announced plans to impeach Mr Oloo, accusing him mismanaging the assembly and allegedly frustrating the Executive. Mr Oloo, however, dismissed their claims as baseless and vowed to do what is in the best interest of the people of Kisumu. Constant wrangles ALSO READ:

MCAs put Nyagarama on impeachment notice In what resembles the constant wrangles that dogged the first County Assembly headed by former Speaker Anne Adul, the ouster plan is gaining momentum with a number of MCAs saying they are already working on an impeachment motion. This means that the assembly could be headed for a showdown when it resumes its sittings next week after a long recess. Market Milimani MCA Seth Kanga sparked off the debate last week when he accused Oloo of frustrating the governor by sitting on legislation taken to the assembly by the Executive. 