Some of the Camels that belongs to the Somali pastarolits who are herding at the Kilifi ranch in Bamba Division.The community demanded vaction of the pastrolits.They blamed the local adminstration for inviting and protecting the pastarolits. [Maureen Ongala,Standard] When a few residents from Kerio Valley decided to keep camels back in 2005, not everyone was keen on the idea. ALSO READ:

UK Summit gives hope to disabled Several villagers dismissed the initiative, warning that the animals would attract bandits to the region that has suffered from perennial cattle rustling over the years. Even security officials in the county agreed, saying the animals would lead to insecurity. Other naysayers cautioned that the venture went against the Keiyo culture, saying it was unheard of for locals to keep camels instead of rearing cows, goats and sheep. But now, more than a decade later, those who chose to try keeping camels have become a beacon of hope for an impoverished and malnourished population. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. From just five, the camels now number more than 100 as more farmers embrace them, inspired by the success of the early adopters. Mixed breed The Lapkeiyet self-help group, located in Keu location, rears a mixed breed of Somali and Turkana camels that have thrived in the region. The group occasionally slaughters the animals for subsistence and commercial purposes. “Camel keeping is combating perennial food insecurity and also changing livelihoods through the sale of surplus camel milk, which is better priced than cow milk,” said Lapkeiyet chairman Raphael Cheboi. ALSO READ:

Cartels eyeing land to benefit from oil Mr Cheboi said owing to the harsh climate in Keiyo North, residents agreed to try their luck with the camels after they failed in crop and dairy farming. “Each year during the dry season, crops wither and hundreds of animals die. Many children suffer from malnutrition. People would migrate to the highlands in search of food as the surviving animals became too emaciated to provide milk. But the camels have changed the narrative." It would, however, take a series of meetings to persuade the community to keep camels. Wrote proposal The group wrote a proposal to Iten-based Community Agricultural Development in Semi-Arid Lands that was funded by the Japanese government through the Japan International Co-operation Agency. As a result, they were given five camels - one bull and four cows. Cheboi recalls that at first, the camels were hostile towards women and children. But once the residents were taught how to handle the animals, a bond was created. “We took group members to Kolowa in Baringo County to be taught how to keep and milk the camels. Since then everything has been smooth,” Cheboi said. The chairman said they supply more than 100 litres of camel milk to Eldoret town when the animals are lactating. A litre sells for between Sh100 and Sh120, which is double what a litre of cow milk retails for. “The demand for camel milk is high and we sometimes restrict sales to keep some for our own consumption. A heifer goes for Sh40,000 while a bull costs Sh60,000,” Cheboi said. Joseph Kemboi, a resident, said the money from camel rearing had enabled them to diversify and plant crops better suited for the region. "With more food available, our children are attending school without a hitch. Initially, the school drop-out rate was high," said Kemboi. Conserve environment Besides supplementing food and income for the families, the animals have also helped in conserving the environment. “Unlike other livestock, camels have flat soles that do not loosen the top soil and make it vulnerable to erosion. They have greatly improved soil conservation in the region,” said Milka Kigen, a resident. Ms Kigen noted that Lapkeiyet had linked up with the Kenya Camel Association, which conducted field days for farmers across the county and assisted them to improve their breeds. She added that this had greatly helped members to acquire new knowledge about the animals. “Our farm is now a resource centre where enthusiastic farmers and learners troop for field days,” said Kigen, adding that they had built an improvised charcoal cooler that could keep the milk fresh for up to two weeks. 