  ALSO READ:

Poor records delay retirees NSSF cash  A State corporation has been allowed to hand over management of a disputed parking yard to a company that won the tender in 2014. National Social Security Fund (NSSF) got the green light to hand over the open space along Kenyatta Avenue to Hasmo Agencies Ltd. This was after a court dismissed an application by two sub-tenants, Sokomania and Lulu East Africa, seeking to block Hasmo from taking charge of the parking bays.  The court found that interim orders issued in favour of Lulu East Africa Ltd on 27 April were irregular and set them aside. Senior Principal Magistrate Grace Mmasi said after hearing submissions by the NSSF lawyer, the court concluded that it lacked the jurisdiction to issue such orders. She said the court had established that Lulu and another company had been kicked out of the suit property in a judgement delivered by Justice Samson Okongo dated February 14. The magistrate further declined to stay her orders to allow Lulu East Africa to appeal, saying the court had already found that it did not have jurisdiction to entertain the company’s application. ALSO READ:

Poor records delay retirees’ NSSF cash The court was told Hassan Mohamed, the director of Hasmo Agencies, who won a lucrative tender to manage parking bays on the suit property, had not been able to take over the site since two sub-tenants had refused to vacate. Despite an order by the High Court, Sokomania and Lulu East Africa had claimed to have a prohibitive injunction from the magistrate’ court, which issued interim orders prohibiting Hasmo from taking possession of the land. Faith Karanja Court allows NSSF to hand over disputed parking space to Hasmo Agencies Nairobi Agency wins legal battle to secure parking yard tender A State corporation has been allowed to hand over management of a disputed parking yard to a company that won the tender in 2014. ALSO READ:

Employers take NSSF war to International Labour Organisation National Social Security Fund (NSSF) got the green light to hand over the open space along Kenyatta Avenue to Hasmo Agencies Ltd. This was after a court dismissed an application by two sub-tenants, Sokomania and Lulu East Africa, seeking to block Hasmo from taking charge of the parking bays. The court found that interim orders issued in favour of Lulu East Africa Ltd on 27 April were irregular and set them aside. Senior Principal Magistrate Grace Mmasi said after hearing submissions by the NSSF lawyer, the court concluded that it lacked the jurisdiction to issue such orders. She said the court had established that Lulu and another company had been kicked out of the suit property in a judgement delivered by Justice Samson Okongo dated February 14. The magistrate further declined to stay her orders to allow Lulu East Africa to appeal, saying the court had already found that it did not have jurisdiction to entertain the company’s application. The court was told Hassan Mohamed, the director of Hasmo Agencies, who won a lucrative tender to manage parking bays on the suit property, had not been able to take over the site since two sub-tenants had refused to vacate. Despite an order by the High Court, Sokomania and Lulu East Africa had claimed to have a prohibitive injunction from the magistrate’ court, which issued interim orders prohibiting Hasmo from taking possession of the land. Faith Karanja ALSO READ:

FKE takes the NSSF battle to ILO   Agency wins legal battle to secure parking yard tender A State corporation has been allowed to hand over management of a disputed parking yard to a company that won the tender in 2014. National Social Security Fund (NSSF) got the green light to hand over the open space along Kenyatta Avenue to Hasmo Agencies Ltd. This was after a court dismissed an application by two sub-tenants, Sokomania and Lulu East Africa, seeking to block Hasmo from taking charge of the parking bays. The court found that interim orders issued in favour of Lulu East Africa Ltd on 27 April were irregular and set them aside. Senior Principal Magistrate Grace Mmasi said after hearing submissions by the NSSF lawyer, the court concluded that it lacked the jurisdiction to issue such orders. She said the court had established that Lulu and another company had been kicked out of the suit property in a judgement delivered by Justice Samson Okongo dated February 14. The magistrate further declined to stay her orders to allow Lulu East Africa to appeal, saying the court had already found that it did not have jurisdiction to entertain the company’s application. The court was told Hassan Mohamed, the director of Hasmo Agencies, who won a lucrative tender to manage parking bays on the suit property, had not been able to take over the site since two sub-tenants had refused to vacate. Despite an order by the High Court, Sokomania and Lulu East Africa had claimed to have a prohibitive injunction from the magistrate’ court, which issued interim orders prohibiting Hasmo from taking possession of the land. 