 Clad in a baseball cap and in a playful mood, President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday made an impromptu landing at a golf club in Mombasa and strolled in a public beach. ALSO READ:

I was sacrificed, sacked General tells House team In the modus operandi characterising his latest Coastal tour, the Commander-in-Chief landed at Mombasa Golf Club in three helicopters around 1pm and walked straight to the club’s canteen. Earlier in the day, the President had made an equally impromptu tour of Kwale in which he was seen inspecting development without the usual razzmatazz that accompanies such events. The three air-force helicopters were preceded by a smaller one carrying Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho who drove away on landing. Most people did not recognise the President in a base ball cap and an easy yellow shirt. Club members soon realised they were in the President’s presence when he began shaking hands with golfers and staff members. He then took a seat in the club house and ordered a meal of chicken and vegetables. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 For an hour, the President enjoyed the company of members, sharing jokes and pleasantries. He later donated money to promote Coast Ladies Golf tournament and left behind happy revelers who celebrated from Friday night to yesterday morning. Uhuru was then driven to Jomo Kenyatta Public beach where he mingled with members of the public and shared fresh palm juice commonly known as madafu. The President has been in Coast for close to ten days operating mostly from his private residence in Kilifi. He has avoided his official residence throwing politicians and government officials off-balance. Occasionally, he has also turned up at Nyali Golf Club for his renewed interest in golf. At least twice he has ventured out of Mombasa to inspect projects in Lamu and Kilifi counties. He also held meetings with NASA Raila Odinga, Joho and Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori. ALSO READ:

Uhuru, Raila parties don’t inspire hope “I want to make an announcement that an important Kenyan visited our club yesterday. A VIP came and landed by chopper on the course and walked straight to the house where you area seated.” “This important guest was none other his excellency the President Uhuru Kenyatta,” said Captain Mark Mbua. And Lady captain Mary Mariga said the head of state bought meals and refreshments for lady golfers attending the Ladies Coast Open Gulf Championships. The President who has not been operating from the State house is leaving in private home in the North Coast. 