Narok Governor Samuel Ole Tunai has asked the national government to delay the planned disarmament operation in Transmara to enable residents surrender more illegal firearms. The governor has also asked for a review of police deployment across the county to ensure equity. The Narok Governor made the request on Saturday during a public security meeting with National Internal Security CS Dr. Fred Matiang'i and Police Inspector General Joseph Boinett at Njipiship in Kilgoris Central. The meeting assessed the public response to the government's ultimatum for the surrender of illegally held firearms in the area. A substantial number of firearms that have been surrendered so far were displayed to the public who were asked to encourage residents still holding illegal arms to surrender them before they are netted by the imminent disarmament operation. Yesterday Interior CS Fred Matiang'i who spoke at Njipiship area in Transmara where he set ablaze over 100 firearms netted in the 30-day voluntary gun-surrender exercise said the government shall no longer tolerate killings caused by guns in the wrong hands of civilians. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. "We are giving a grace period up to the end of this month for the chiefs, elders and local leaders to spearhead the voluntary surrender. Upon the elapse of the notice, we shall come for the guns ourselves in form of forceful operation," said Dr Matiang'i. The CS who was accompanied by his Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) Patrick Ntutu, IG Joseph Boinnet and Regional Coordinators, Mongo Chimwaga (Rift Valley) and his Nyanza counterpart Moffat Kanga said more guns were still in the hands of criminals. Matiang'i added that they would use the grassroots mechanisms in a bid to rid the two counties of the illegal arms that have been attributed to the inter-communal and land boundary disputes in the two counties. He further added that the runaway insecurity in Transmara which is bordering to the world-famous Masai Mara Game Reserve was posing a threat to the tourism sector thus need to weed them out. "The President is concerned of the insecurity here in Narok County which is the hope of Masaai Mara. Which is a critical economic element to the country," reiterated the CS.