  National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has rejected the nomination of former senator Halima Abdille to represent Parliament in the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC). Mr Muturi made the determination during a charged debate as MPs called for soberness and strict adherence to the law in approving the nominations. ALSO READ:

SRC nominees ready to review salaries for MPs Funyula MP Wilberforce Oundo said Ms Abdille’s appointment raised constitutional issues touching on experience. His arguments were backed by Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei, Sabina Chege (Murang’a Woman Rep) and Seme MP James Nyikal, who called on their colleagues to uphold the law. They made reference to Section 5 of the SRC Act that requires commissioners to have at least 10 years’ experience. Abdille’s CV presented in Parliament shows she was born in 1988 and graduated from university in 2011. Meet requirements “If she graduated in 2011, does she meet the requirements of 10 years’ experience? We should not make a decision that will later be challenged,” said Mr Oundo. “She has no distinguished career shown apart from being a teacher in North Eastern for two months and an Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission clerk for three months.” Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Abdille was a senator in the last Parliament following her nominated by Orange Democratic Movement party. “We must maintain the House’s integrity. Let’s not lower the threshold of the vetting process,” said Ms Shollei. The House approved Lyn Cherop, Dalmas Otieno, Leah Munyao, John Monyoncho, Sophia Moturi, Margaret Sawa and Peris Ashubwe although the Finance and National Planning committee chaired by Charles Limo had initially rejected Ms Ashubwe’s nomination. ALSO READ:

High profile murders come back to haunt Muhoro The MPs accused the committee of doing a shoddy job and Muturi ordered clerk Michael Sialai to write to the Parliamentary Service Commission to say Abdille was disqualified.