Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu during a meeting with mining companies at a Nairobi hotel on May 15, 2018. [Photo: WILLIS AWANDU/STANDARD] Business was disrupted at Kitui county assembly as MCAs differed over priorities for Sh50 million disaster emergency fund. ALSO READ:

Ruling on allowances faulty, SRC should seek an appeal The MCAs said Governor Charity Ngilu and her executive should be more transparent and accountable to the taxpayer. Wiper-affiliated members, who are a majority in the House, traded accusations with their Narc colleagues on Wednesday on how the funds were being utilised. After the aborted session, Wiper’s Majority Leader Peter Kilonzo convened a press conference in his office where Kyuso MCA Stephen Musili, who is also the House Majority Whip, addressed journalists. Mr Musili said proper guidelines should be laid down to stop unscrupulous people from accessing and diverting the funds for their personal use. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Passed law “In May, this year, the assembly unanimously passed law establishing an emergency fund to facilitate humanitarian aid in case of disaster. MCAs approved the Kitui County Emergency Fund Bill, 2018, in the wake of recent floods that led to deaths and destruction of property,” said Musili. He said after the Bill was passed and Ms Ngilu assented to it, there has been uncertainties on priority areas and beneficiaries of the fund. One-man show ALSO READ:

Speaker defends MCAs' trip to Tanzania “We are opposed to an idea where county executive member responsible for the fund is the one having monopoly and powers to select and give aid to areas and persons affected by disaster. We cannot have a one-man show,” the majority whip said. The emergency fund law allows the county government to allocate funds for emergency response in case of loss of life or property caused by drought, floods, fire and disease outbreak. The Committee on Budget and Appropriations tabled the Bill. 