  Police are on the trail of an officer alleged to have raped a student and then deserted. The suspect, a constable attached to Adungosi Police Station, is alleged to have attacked a 19-year-old student who was booked at the station on August 23. ALSO READ:

British peadophile who fled to Kenya jailed for five years The girl had been taken to the station after she was allegedly defiled by a boda boda operator at Kodema village. While at the station, the Form Three student was booked in by two police constables and taken to a cell to wait for the submission of her birth certificate to establish her age. But on the night of August 24 one of the officers was alleged to have entered the cell, threatened the girl, and raped her. Police Commander Wambua Katithi said medical tests had confirmed that the girl was raped and she had recorded a statement. “The officer is currently on the run but when we arrest him, the law shall follow its course,” said Mr Katithi. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Elsewhere, a 23-year-old woman narrated to a court how two men robbed and raped her. Testifying before Kakamega Senior Principal Magistrate Thomas Muraguri in a case where Kasimile Halwa is charged with rape, the victim said she heard the two discussing whether or not to kill her to ensure. The woman said she was on her way home on February 4 at around 8pm when she heard a motorbike approach from behind. ALSO READ:

Suspect to undergo DNA test When it reached her, the riders disembarked and she heard a familiar voice calling out her name. Before the motorbike’s lights were switched off, the woman told the court that she saw two men; a relative, Patrick Likove, and Halwa, who was the rider. “I did not sense any danger since they were people well known to me. My cousin came to where I was standing and started choking me.” She said she tried to scream. “I then heard Patrick call Halwa. They tied my hands, covered my mouth and dropped me to the ground. They pulled me into a tree plantation beside the road.” The two men then raped and left her for dead. “They took Sh3,500 and a mobile phone from me,” the court heard. In his defence, Halwa, claimed he had been set up because he refused to poison Likove on the woman’s request. The matter will be mentioned on September 6. ALSO READ:

Another girl, 13, defiled and brutally killed 