Governor Wilber Ottichilo (right) is taken through the process of registering for NHIF. NHIF is aiming to increase the access to the cover by launching campaign. [Photo: Eric Lungai, Standard] The National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) will spend Sh2 billion annually to enrol over 360,000 senior citizens by 2022. ALSO READ:

Kisumu drafts bill on universal healthcare Dubbed the Health Insurance Subsidy Programme, the scheme is part of efforts to achieve Universal Health Care (UHC). It includes providing medical cover to orphans, persons living with severe disabilities and the vulnerable. NHIF Assistant Manager for National Programmes Juliet Maara said the programme, launched in 2015, had been extended to the rest of the country following its success. "We have witnessed positive gains and increased numbers of those covered from 21,000 people to 181,000 as at June 2018. Going forward, we plan to scale up this programme and ensure the elderly and vulnerable persons have access to comprehensive medical services despite their financial limitations," she said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The official also noted that the Government had taken over funding of the programme from the World Bank this financial year, after eight years. "All the beneficiaries of this programme are covered by the Supa-Cover Scheme and are brought on board through the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection. The beneficiaries do not pay for the cover or for the services at the health facilities,” she said. Maara noted that more than nine million Kenyans were still vulnerable and needed to be enrolled in the scheme. Some of the programme's benefits include, prescribed laboratory and x-ray investigation services, packaged services such as radiology, oncology, renal dialysis, kidney transplant, surgical packages (minor and major) and overseas treatment for health services that are not available in Kenya. ALSO READ:

Double pain for ICU patients at hospital Maara added that it was important for Kenyans to ensure the elderly and those living with disabilities were insured. President Uhuru Kenyatta had also directed NHIF to register all public secondary students in a Sh4 billion plan.