As the landmark ruling against Monsanto on the use of Roundup continues to resonate, farmers are worried that they could be victims of this deadly chemical. In the ruling, Monsanto lost a court case against a school grounds man from California who claims his cancer was caused by glyphosate in the Roundup herbicide he used to control weeds. Given the concerns on chemical use, today, I will advise farmers on how well to protect themselves while using agro chemicals. ALSO READ:

What next? Farmers ask in the wake of Roundup cancer ruling Read instructions Protective clothes, properly functioning equipment, and careful application methods help minimise exposure to pesticides during all phases of handling, including storage, mixing, transport, application and cleanup. Always read the herbicide label completely before opening the container. To view the entire label, you must peel back the tape first. Be careful peeling the tape, because the label can easily tear. In most chemical-usage situations, the skin is the part of the body that is most likely to receive exposure. However, the amount of pesticide that is absorbed through your skin and into your body depends on the pesticide itself and the area of the body exposed. Studies in chemical exposure show that 95 per cent of exposure will be on the skin. Some areas of the body are more absorptive than others. The most absorptive skin on the body is around the genital area. If you have to take a rest room break during sprayingor when mixing, wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water first. Other areas of the body that are highly absorptive is the scalp, forehead and ears. Be aware of any cuts or abrasions on the skin that could come in contact with chemical. Wear long-sleeved shirt Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Ensure you have all the proper personal protection equipment (PPE) listed on the label before opening the container. Always wear at least a long-sleeved shirt and long-legged pants made of sturdy material. Fasten the shirt collar completely to protect the lower part of your neck. A hat is also recommended and coveralls may prove to be useful.  Wear rubber or vinyl boots with socks. Don’t wear tennis shoes or sandals. If you wear leather shoes or boots, waterproof them with a good sealant. Leather absorbs the herbicide and is difficult to wash out. There is potential for getting the herbicide in your eyes, protect them with goggles or a face shield; when mixing or spraying herbicides. Protect the eyes The correct calibration of spraying equipment is the key to safe, effective and cost-efficient herbicide use. Correct calibration means you are applying the right amount of chemical at the right concentration. Over-application of herbicide can cause off-target damage and pollute the environment. Under-application will not treat the target pest effectively and so is a waste of time and money. It is also illegal to apply herbicides at a higher rate than that stated on the label. ALSO READ:

Farmers demand end to ban on miraa in restaurants Over and underspraying Direct spray away from people, including yourself, and minimise overhead spraying. Be sure your equipment functions properly before each use and make necessary repairs. Check that all connections are tight and hoses have no cracks. Replace equipment you can’t repair. Over-pumping backpack sprayers can cause the seal to blow on the pump and allow herbicides to leak down the back of the operator’s clothing. If this happens, change your clothes immediately and wash before wearing again. Repair or replace leaking equipment before further use. [The writer is an expert on agricultural solutions] 