Officers from the Ethics and Anti- Corruption Commission (EACC) raided Kericho County offices and carted away documents in their probe into the tendering process of the Sh100 million Kerenga Airstrip rehabilitation program. Mr Yassin Aila, the EACC communication officer said they had launched formal investigations into the controversial tender award. “There is an ongoing probe into the airport issue. We are looking at procurement irregularities among other issues,” he said. The officer added that once they complete their objective investigations, the arrests of procurement officers and other senior county officials connected to the awarding of the tender will follow. “Once we complete our objective investigations, the law will follow its natural course and the arrest and prosecutions of individuals suspected of flouting procurement laws will commence,” said Aila. The EACC team arrived in the county following Belgut Member of Parliament (MP) Nelson Koech’s letter to the commission asking it to launch investigations into the tender award.  He drew the EACC attention to the alleged alteration of the requirement of the eligible bidders to have National Construction Authority (NCA) 3 qualification. “I believe that the project being undertaken by the county government of Kericho is conduit for loss of taxpayers’ money.  The alteration of the requirement of the eligible bidders to have National Construction Authority (NCA) 3 qualification I believe were deliberate and meant to favour particular interest,” reads part of Koech’s letter. The Belgut legislator in whose constituency the airstrip is located claimed that the company which won the tender was responsible for shoddy road and other works across the county. “The company is responsible for several incomplete works across the county,” he said. The airstrip upgrading project has been dogged with controversy since inception. In January, Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) differed sharply over the Sh100M governor Paul Chepkwony’s administration required for the project leading to the hurling out of the mace during the acrimonious session.