Members of Parliament Wednesday unanimously adopted a report spelling better catering services and other facilitation while in Parliament. The lawmakers have complained about the quality of the food served at the cafeteria and demanded better services within three months. ALSO READ:

Police probe 'terrorist' car attack outside parliament This they said should be achieved by hiring professional chefs comparable to those hired in five-star hotels in the city. The report authored by Committee on Members’ Services and Facilities after benchmarking in the United Kingdom and the Northern Ireland Assembly further recommend the construction of two more cafeterias on the ground floor of the Red Cross building. Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi said MPs spent 80 percent of our time attending committee meetings thus the rooms should be improved to ensure comfort the members when transaction their mandate. Osotsi said most of the committee rooms were small thus not “conducive to hold serious meetings”.  “Our dining floor is very slippery especially for some of us who walk on clutches. Some of the members might even lose their teeth,” said nominated MP David Ole Sankok in reference to poor conditions of rooms in Parliament. “In order to improve catering services, it is necessary for Parliamentary Services Commission to consider urgently facilitating the renovation of the members’ restaurant including floor sanding, repainting and repairs of chairs and procurement of new table clothes,” says the report. The lawmakers have further recommended overhaul renovation of the current Kitchen, restaurant, bar, stillroom and members lounge. “That there is need for the commission to set up two more catering units in addition to the main restaurant and Continental House at the Red Cross Building and the County House to cater for the membership of the House and each unit to be allowed to work competitively to facilitate efficiency in service delivery,” adds the report. ALSO READ:

MPs want fresh probe on contaminated sugar The MPs also want the commission to consider developing a training plan for catering staff based on the proposed skills audit, and the commission to explore attachment for catering staff in five star hotels within the country. They also want toilets adjacent to the main reception in the main building be cleaned frequently to address the bad smell emanating from the toilets. “…and that the malfunctioning door locks and non-operational taps at the wash-hand basin should be required with utmost urgency,” it adds. They want PSC to fast tract the construction of the multi-storey office block to ease pressure of scarcity of offices for members and committee rooms. “The commission should facilitate major plumbing activities in all Parliament buildings especially Continental and Protection House to address the issue of washroom,” continue the report.