Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) George Kinoti when he appeared before the National Assembly Security Committee at Continental House, Nairobi on Tuesday 20/03/18. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] The office of the Director of Criminal Investigations has written to the Judiciary seeking an appointment that will possibly set off investigations into corruption in the justice department. ALSO READ:

Sirisia MP John Waluke arrested This precedes yesterday's directive by the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, where he asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to probe the matter. "The investigating team is requesting for an appointment with your office for a brief. Kindly prepare all the supporting documents pertaining to this matter in question, " reads the letter from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations signed by Michael Sang of the Directorate. Sang wrote in response to a letter from Anne Amadi, the Chief Registrar of The Judiciary, who upon a request by the DPP to investigate corruption at Milimani Law Courts, Nairobi yielded and complied to have investigation carried out. In Amadi's letter, the Judiciary notes that funds may have been lost, but it is still engaged in the process of carrying an audit for the period of January 2016 to December 2017. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The letter states: "Judiciary Directorate of Audit is Risk Management is carrying out Institutional Internal Audit exercise and we are in receipt of Final Internal Audit Report on Revenue Management at Milimani Law Courts for the period of January 2016 to December 2017." It further calls on the DCI to begin the investigations so that the culprits can be prosecuted. The Judiciary has provided a report of ombudsman to the DCI for 'necessary action.' This is not the first meeting as the letter from DCI confirms two initial meetings.  Notes scribbled on the letter indicate that a meeting was held on July 30 between ‘DCI/Hon. Were and Hon. Manyuoli.’ ALSO READ:

Four more people arrested in dramatic chase over sim-card fraud The second one  was on August 6 at ‘2.00pm with Internal Auditor.’