The private security sector is growing into a more structured profession with proper systems. Recently, the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government proposed to develop a training manual for private security officers in a bid to join the fight against rising cases of crime. The training manual will enable proper coordination with other security agencies in sharing information and intelligence; a move welcomed by the Kenya National Private Sector Workers’ Union. ALSO READ:

NSSF plan to go after six per cent of your salary hits a snag Whereas security companies play a major role in providing safety solutions to homes and businesses, security systems will be enhanced in safeguarding the nation. This is great progress for the security industry. We need to go a step further to offer technology-aided security services. We live in a society where there is a constant threat to people's security. It is for that reason that to get access to a majority of buildings and other establishments, one is searched. What if one day you arrive at the airport and there are no car checks, sniffer dogs, system scanners and rigorous personnel search? You might be alarmed and question our own security. Video management The age of big data is here. We are witnessing volume, velocity and variety of data in this era. The security industry is aware of the risks that come with this era. However, we are also extracting meaning from that extraordinary amount of data that could in turn lower crime, reduce road carnage, save energy, and the list goes on. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Innovative intelligence tech solutions are what we should focus on. Intelligent video management software provides a near instant forensic search of recorded video using criteria such as colour or size and face recognition capability that allows one to upload a picture of a person of interest. Hence this system will investigate and filter recorded video by similarities such as size, colour, direction, speed of object motion, and more. It also has the ability to capture license plates and access automated number plate recognition of both full and partial number plates and an interactive 3D map with a visual overview of all installed cameras on a site map. ALSO READ:

Residents living in fear of gang attacks Technology also allows integrated CCTV with access control, perimeter protection, fire and security alarms, facial recognition and traffic monitoring through a custom-built security system. With powerful video analytics, security systems can sound alarms when motion is detected, a trigger for unattended or abandoned objects, when an attempt is made to turn the CCTV cameras or when the image quality deteriorates due to blurring, soiling or blinding of the lens or darkening of the image. Critical information This solution allows external storage support with notification services via SMS, E-mail or voice with access via mobile phone or web, allowing real time monitoring. Technology has also aided in store management by combining in-store surveillance and monitoring of checkout transactions that provide critical information. ATM Intellect solution automates monitoring of self-service cash machines by integrating video with transaction data for live asset protection. These technologies are already available in our market. Supporting sustainable safety and security for our customers and the community will be enhanced by the use of intelligent systems and the proper training of our security teams to be able to detect, identify any unusual activity and raise the necessary alarm to be able to curb the rate of crime within the country. Necessary network security and intrusion detection measures must be put in place to prevent unauthorized access. In order to ensure the information remains safe even after successful network breaches, organizations are often required to set up full-disk encryption on all servers, workstations and removable devices. ALSO READ:

Farmers use flying sensors to obtain vital information In this case, even if unauthorised personnel manage to gain access to the data, it will still be impossible to decipher the contents. Notably, technology is not intended to replace the human factor; it supplements human efforts to reduce the element of risk in any assignment. As the Government and private sector players work together to offer protection to the citizenry and their property, the use of modern technology needs to be at the centre of it. Mr Delahaije is CEO and Chairman SGA Security.jdelahaije@sgasecurity.com