Reports indicating that Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi (Bobi Wine) has serious head injuries is fake news, President Yoweri Museveni says. “The fake news generators and even some of the elements of the security forces are concentrating on the stoning of the President's car. Please, that is not the most serious problem here. That President has the capacity, either alone or in company with his personal security, to defend himself, not only against stone throwers but against any attacker,” Museveni said in a statement. ALSO READ:

Bobi Wine, two other Ugandan MPs charged with treason The president said Bobi Wine does not have any head injuries or bone fractures, according to a medical report given to him by UPDF doctors from Makindye military barracks where he's remanded. “I decided to check with Army doctors because, being a disciplined army, UPDF doctors always take precautions in such situations. Bobi Wine had already been seen by doctors in Arua, Gulu and Kampala. He has no head or chest injuries or bone fractures, they informed me,” read part of Museveni’s statement. Kyagulanyi was remanded to the barracks after appearing before the General Court Martial in Gulu, where he was charged with illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. Museveni’s statement is contrary to reports by a few individuals who were allowed to see Bobi Wine as they maintained the MP appeared very weak, with head injuries and possible fractures. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 His wife Barbie Kyagulanyi, Lord Mayor Erias Lukwago and the Uganda Human Rights Commission chairperson Meddie Kaggwa are among the few who have been allowed access to Kyagulanyi. Meanwhile, Museveni declared the Mityana municipality MP Francis Zaake a wanted man, saying he escaped from police custody. The MPs were arrested from Arua last week Monday after chaos that marked the final day of Arua municipality parliamentary race, eventually won by now jailed independent candidate Kassiano Wadri. ALSO READ:

Museveni’s car stoned, Bobi Wine arrested