 Perennial political supremacy battles between Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Speaker Perennial political supremacy battles between Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Speaker George Ndotto have resurfaced, this time at the county assembly. Minority leaders in the assembly yesterday accused Mr Ndotto of rekindling the 1992 political rivalry between him and Mrs Ngilu by introducing partisan politics in the House. Assembly’s Minority Leader John Kisangau Mbaki and his Deputy Alex Nganga accused Ndotto, who for 20 years tried in vain to unseat Ngilu from her Kitui Central MP, of witch-hunt and fanning animosity between majority Wiper MCAs against Ngilu’s minority Narc MCAs. They cited Wednesday’s chaotic session in the House, accusing Ndotto of conniving with Wiper MCAs to block Kitui County Emergency Fund Bill, 2018 which Ngilu had reverted to the assembly with amendments for approval.  Mr Mbaki and Mr Nganga claimed the speaker invoked queer rules and standing orders to postpone voting on the contentious Bill. “We want to challenge the speaker to explain which rules and standing orders he preferred when he failed to put the motion on the Bill on question and instead postponed the debate to Tuesday, next week,” Mbaki wondered. They said Ndotto must explain why no action has been taken against Wiper MCAs, including the Majority Leader Peter Kilonzo who ran amok and violently disrupted business in the assembly, breaking furniture and roughing up their colleagues. have resurfaced, this time at the county assembly. Minority leaders in the assembly yesterday accused Mr Ndotto of rekindling the 1992 political rivalry between him and Mrs Ngilu by introducing partisan politics in the House. Assembly’s Minority Leader John Kisangau Mbaki and his Deputy Alex Nganga accused Ndotto, who for 20 years tried in vain to unseat Ngilu from her Kitui Central MP, of witch-hunt and fanning animosity between majority Wiper MCAs against Ngilu’s minority Narc MCAs. They cited Wednesday’s chaotic session in the House, accusing Ndotto of conniving with Wiper MCAs to block Kitui County Emergency Fund Bill, 2018 which Ngilu had reverted to the assembly with amendments for approval. Mr Mbaki and Mr Nganga claimed the speaker invoked queer rules and standing orders to postpone voting on the contentious Bill. “We want to challenge the speaker to explain which rules and standing orders he preferred when he failed to put the motion on the Bill on question and instead postponed the debate to Tuesday, next week,” Mbaki wondered. They said Ndotto must explain why no action has been taken against Wiper MCAs, including the Majority Leader Peter Kilonzo who ran amok and violently disrupted business in the assembly, breaking furniture and roughing up their colleagues.