 Governors have promised to replicate a public participation model exercised in Makueni County in their respective counties. ALSO READ:

Inside Makueni's universal Health Care Programme Yesterday, the county chiefs were hosted by Governor Kivutha Kibwana (pictured) in Makueni to learn how the county has ensured public participation at all levels. Prof Kibwana explained the public must approve completed projects before the county government can process payments. Speaking while opening the Peer Learning Summit at a Makueni hotel, Council of Governors deputy chair Anne Waiguru said peer learning was an integral part of performance improvement among counties. “As counties, we must keep on learning from each other because we want to discover the solutions that are working for the purpose of adopting them to improve service delivery to the citizens,” said Waiguru, who is also the Kirinyaga governor. Her colleagues Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The governor called on her colleagues to take learning missions across the county as a positive thing and for each devolved unit to make sure that they implement its priority areas as per the principles of Rapid Results Initiative (RRI). She also challenged other leaders to strengthen public participation model for transparency . “We must challenge ourselves, take action and transparently report to the citizens and the devolution stakeholders on the practical steps that county governments have taken to improve on public participation,” she said. ALSO READ:

Makueni beats Kisumu in sitting volleyball tourney Public participation was said to be a pillar in realisation of the Jubilee Government’s Four Agenda, attainment of Vision 2030 and the County Integrated Development Plans. Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa said corruption was a 'killer disease' in the growth of counties. Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga described devolution as a train that had already left the station, and one that would never be derailed or distracted.