Migori Governor Okoth Obado escalated his attacks on the Orange Democratic Party accusing it of promoting dictatorship, on a day his ally – former Minister Dalmas Otieno – unveiled a new political party. In what could signify a fast changing political scenario in Southern Nyanza, a long time bedrock of the Raila Odinga-led ODM, Mr Otieno said he had joined the National Liberal Party, a fringe part associated with former Nyamira Senator Kennedy Mong’are. ALSO READ:

Raila cracks whip on Dori and Jumwa As Otieno, one of the longest serving politicians in Nyanza unveiled the party he will use to vie for the Migori senatorial by-election, Obado declared war on what he termed ODM’s dictatorial leadership. He said the party that denied him the ticket in 2013 but endorsed him in last year’s elections had refused to listen to voters and was handpicking leaders without consultations. “I am not against against party leader Raila Odinga but I am against the party’s policies of imposing leaders on the people,” Obado told a funds drive at Rapogi High School on Friday. The governor, who has apparently resolved to take the party leadership head-on, said he will not relent on his quest to correct what he termed problems bedevilling the party.  “I have no apologies to make. I will repeat it several times. We must go to the people and seek their opinion. We cannot sit two or three people in an office in Nairobi and make decisions affecting the people. I have rejected it,” he said. Final term Obado, who is on his final term in office, broke ranks with his party after it handpicked former Energy minister and his political rival Ochillo Ayacko to fly the party’s flag in the October 8 by-election. Mr Ayacko contested against him last year and filed two petitions seeking to overturn in his victory but both petitions were thrown out by courts. ALSO READ:

ODM now confronts stalemate in Migori On July 9, this year, Raila made a futile attempt to reconcile the two politicians during the burial of the late Senator Okello. They shook hands and smiled for the cameras but the truce did not last even for a day as Obado later rubbished it as a mere public relations exercise. On Friday, Obado said it was wrong for the party to “abandon” Okello’s  family that had appealed for support to retain the seat. “We have seen it happen all the time. Families who have lost a lawmaker have been given chances to inherit the seats. We saw it with senators  Otieno Kajwang’ and Mutula Kilonzo. Why not Ben Oluoch Okello? asked  Obado. Speaking later in Migori town during the coronation of Suba Council of Elders, Obado accused an MP from the county of fighting him. Speaking at the same function, Otieno said he had joined the new party to help him win the seat. “Today, I have unveiled a new party. My new symbol is a giraffe. I chose this because just like a giraffe, I can see very far,” said Otieno. He added: “We are bitter because some people came here, pushed us around then suddenly announced they have picked a candidate for people of Migori.” ALSO READ:

Police arrest aspirant, poll officials It was not clear if Obado will support Otieno but sources said the two have been holding talks over the by-election. Campaign plan Already, the ODM party secretariat has rolled out its campaign blueprint which will involve all its elected leaders who are supposed to take up the grassroots campaigns in drumming up support for Ayacko. But Migori Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo and Uriri MP Mark Nyamita, who attended the function, said they will support Raila’s choice for the Senate seat. National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi, who had also been invited for the school harambee, skipped the occasion. He instead sent Homa Bay County Assembly MCA Millicent Nyaboke to represent him. Nyamita said the Raila factor in the campaign was a serious consideration which all those opposed to the Orange party candidate should reckon with.