  Residents have protested about a bridge the county government is building that will allegedly cost over Sh8 million. More than 300 residents of Chepkositonik in Bomet East accused county officials in the department of roads of taking advantage of their need for a bridge to enrich themselves. ALSO READ:

Ekuru: Why we want ‘building bridges taskforce’ disbanded The residents, who chased away workers at the site, said the bridge being built would not take up all the money the county had set aside for the project. The roads executive, Philip Sawek, said the county government had allocated Sh8.4 million for the construction of the bridge meant to connect Chepkositonik and Sugutek. “We requested the county government to build us a bridge but what we got is a culvert. This is a mockery to residents of this area. We will not allow the works to continue until we get a proper bridge,” said Nicolas Rono, one of the residents. He added: “We also want the county government to audit the project and in case any money has been stolen, the culprits must be punished and the cash recovered from them.” Mr Rono said the ‘culvert’ had been built within a week. “We will not allow the contractor to continue with the construction until the governor comes here to see for herself the kind of bridge these people are constructing. This cannot cost the Sh8.4 million allocated to it. We want to know how the money is being used,” said Rono. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Workers fled as residents stormed the site, accusing them of doing a shoddy job. The protesters said the bridge was too small and vehicles could not use it. “Most of us are farmers. We wanted the county to make it easy for us to take our produce to the market by building a bridge that can be used by tractors. We are not happy with what the government has given us. It will be of no much help to us,” said another resident ALSO READ:

Ugandan police cordon off homes of opposition members Mr Sawek asked the residents to allow the contractor to complete the bridge, saying he did not see anything wrong with. “He has just started and he should be given time to do his work without disturbance,” said the executive. Sawek said he was satisfied with the progress of the work so far and asked the protesters to keep off. “Personally, I am satisfied with the progress. The contractor is barely three months at the site. He is expected to complete the job within the next six months,” said Sawek. 