   A family whose three sons were killed and their bodies dumped at a forest in Thika last year is still seeking answers to the deaths. ALSO READ:

Three pistols, 150 rounds of ammo recovered from abandoned house Manasseh Ndirangu, the father to Daniel Ikenya, Mwai Ndirangu and Paul Mutunga, said he had known no peace since his children were abducted and killed last year. “I cannot forget the three, whom I had invested in for years. Their deaths still haunt me. I keep asking myself who killed them and why.” said Manasseh. A suspect linked to the killings went missing from the Nakuru Prison days after his arrest. Declining health Manasseh said his health had declined since he buried his children in February 2017. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Doctors have diagnosed him with kidney disease while his wife, Mary Wangari, has developed a heart problem. The Standard team that visited the couple at their home in Barnabas found them seated outside their house. Manasseh had just arrived home from a dialysis session to help his failing kidneys. ALSO READ:

Family wants justice for man 'officer killed' He said the trauma of losing his three children and the delayed justice in seeking their killers was “slowly killing” him. “We are in pain. We don’t know the truth. Questions on why they were killed haunts us day and night,” said the father. The disappearance of a suspect linked to the murder of the three has left the family with little hope of unravelling the puzzle behind the deaths of the three men. The family had hoped the killings would be resolved when a suspect was arrested on February 29, 2017, in Narok. The suspect was charged with sending threatening texts to the family demanding a ransom of Sh500,000 to secure the release of the three. Other reports that detectives were pursuing a former police officer suspected to head a hit squad have left the family even more baffled. “I have had enough problems and want to see justice for my sons. I want the Government to help me find out the truth,” said Manasseh. ALSO READ:

Two killed, one critically injured in knife attack: source He said he would never come to terms with the loss of his sons until justice was served. His wife did not utter a word throughout the interview, just weeping silently. Manasseh said he wished he had the Sh500,000 demanded by the abductors to exchange for the lives of his sons. However, he said the caller did not give him time to look for the money. 