Luhya leaders have accused Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party leader Raila Odinga of dividing the community. On Saturday, Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa claimed Raila was taking advantage of his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta to have him removed from the Cabinet. ALSO READ:

Kingi hosts 21 MPs as battle for Coast supremacy rages on The leaders, who included Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula, claimed Raila met some local MPs last week and asked them to suggest those they thought should be appointed to various Government positions. The Opposition chief, who is also a National Super Alliance (NASA) principal, is also said to have offered to lead a delegation from the region to meet the President at State House, Nairobi. "A person we supported heavily in 2017 is busy enjoying his 'Canaan' while those who voted for him are suffering. Raila should keep off," said Mr Wetang'ula. "We will not support any presidential aspirant unless they prove they will protect the interests of the Luhya community. We have done a lot to support other people. We need to bargain differently."  Mr Echesa said Raila had been going around telling people the President would remove him from Cabinet. Luhyas tired "Luhyas are tired of Raila and the sooner he realises that the better. He should stop. We have leaders who can speak for us." The came as ODM legislators dared Wetang'ula to quit NASA instead of issuing threats against Raila. ALSO READ:

Uhuru’s dilemma over Ruto and Raila in Cabinet reshuffle Budalang'i MP Raphael Wanjala and Oundo Mudenyo of Funyula told Wetang'ula to stop castigating Raila's decision to work with Uhuru. "If Wetang’ula has found a new home where he feels comfortable, then he should focus on building it. He should stop misleading the country that NASA is dead. He should stop telling us he will leave NASA, he should just go," said Mr Wanjala. “If you want to go, please go in peace. We will make sure NASA is strong. The region is solidly behind Odinga. Those who will tour the county seeking political support will be disappointed unless they are with Raila," added Mr Mudenyo. 