The much anticipated demolition of Air Gate mall formerly known as Taj Mall has been pushed to Monday next week. This is even as the deadline of a vacation notice issued by the multi-sectoral committee on unsafe structures lapsed today. ALSO READ:

Why banks could be biggest casualties in the property demolitions The committee chaired by Moses Nyakiongora who also doubles up as the National building inspectorate secretary general, had given Airgate’s management until August 30 to have brought down the structure. Nairobi regeneration task force operation’s manager, Chief Julius Wanjau on Thursday told The Standard that Airgate Mall in Embakasi would be demolished next week. He said that the establishment’s management had been given ample time to have complied with the vacation notice and time to bring down the once iconic mall had come. Other demolitions Wanjau said they did not demolish Air Gate mall today since the taskforce was yet to complete the flattening of the twin Southend mall located at the junction of Langata and Mbagathi Roads. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “So far we have been able to flatten one side of the twin southend mall and by Saturday we should have entirely flattened everything. We do not want to do shoddy work so we would rather take even years if necessary but ensure that by the time we move on to the next building we have completed what we set out to achieve,” he said. The operations manager explained that the flattening of Southend mall had been a challenge due to the height of the buildings which required a calculated approach to bring down. “Let us first deal with the building at hand then from Monday move on to the next one. The demolition of Airgate could even take place on Thursday but we will communicate on the same,” Wanjau said. ALSO READ:

Taj Mall owner dares State to demolish property Airgate’s owner Ramesh Gorrasia declined to comment on the issue saying he would voice his sentiments come next week. “I cannot comment on the matter today. Call me next week I will give my comments,” said Gorrasia.