 Mombasa based poultry farmer, David Muturi (pictured) is all smiles for the second year running after winning the coveted 2018 Champion of Birds award at the ongoing Mombasa International Agricultural Society of Kenya (ASK) show. ALSO READ:

Diseases that strike chicken in cold season Muturi's 2 year old Rainbow Rooster weighing 6.4 kilogrammes was adjudged the best bird during the annual event. '' Apart from feeding on normal poultry feed, this Rainbow Rooster whom I have nicknamed Champion likes feeding on chapatis and ugali,'' he told The Standard after receiving a trophy for the champion bird. Muturi said that he got the day old chic from Eldoret based chic breeder Kukuchic Limited and decided to rear the chic at his home backyard in Buxton estate, Mombasa County. '' This is probably my best ever show result , but the same cock has been a champion previously winning in the same category last year when it weighed 4.5 kilogrames then,'' he said. He said that since he started rearing poultry in his backyard, he has never looked back and relies from expert advice by Kukuchic extention officers who have provided him with the necessary knowledge he requires in poultry keeping and management. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Kukuchic Senior Extention officer, Mr Jackson Kiptanui said that the Raibow Rooster breed is an improved  kienyeji chicken which can be reared  for both meat and eggs. '' These bird matures between 4 and 5 months. By that time, the male will weigh 3 kgs and the female 2 kgs. The female will start laying eggs at 5 months,'' Kipatanui said. The extention officer said that he bird had a higher resistance against many poultry diseases . ALSO READ:

Diary of a smart brooder '' We urge farmers to follow the vaccination programme provided for better yield results,'' he said. Other couple of advantages for Rainbow Rooster is that they are free range.In addition to commercially formulated feeds, the chicken can feed on grass, sukuma wiki, tomatoes among others. '' Rainbow Roosters meat has low fat.It is sweet and tender meaning it cooks faster than traditional kienyeni chicken. Farming of  these birds can be done with very low investments  as it requires  simple housing  and a farmer can improvise  drinkers  and feeders using  available  materials like plastic jerricans,'' Kiptanui said.