A top Kenyan hospital CEO has been elected to the Governing Council of the International Hospital Federation (IHF). Gordon Odundo, the Nairobi Hospital CEO, will sit in the council of the prestigious global association of healthcare organizations. The International Hospital Federation is a council that seeks to facilitate a world of healthy communities served by well managed hospitals and health services. This election means that healthcare Institutions in the country will be provided with a platform to exchange knowledge and strategic experience as well as opportunities for international collaborations, with different players in the sector. Commenting on the election, Mr. Odundo said, “I am pleased to be elected to the International Hospital Federation’s Governing Council. It is a show of confidence in our Healthcare system and I’m looking forward to engaging with and benchmarking against other global leaders in the healthcare sector. I am eager to fulfill the IHF’s role to help hospitals globally, and especially in Kenya, work towards improving the services delivered to the population with the primary goal of improving the health of society.” His election comes at a time when healthcare penetration in Kenya is at the forefront of the Government’s agenda. With the appointment, which is a testament to the strides made by the healthcare sector in Kenya, Mr. Odundo will represent the country and Africa at the Global forum, in the effort to improve healthcare and ensure effective healthcare management.  The Nairobi Hospital CEO also noted that the position will provide his institution with the right tools in terms of exchange of ideas and expertise as they embark on an ambitious expansion strategy. Mr. Odundo will serve on the Governing Council for a period of 3 years, renewable once. “I believe that this opportunity will provide our country the leverage needed while we work towards achievement of Universal Health Coverage as outlined by the President’s Big Four Agenda,” concluded Mr. Odundo.