Leaders from the region had a private meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House Nairobi on Tuesday. During the meeting, the leaders discussed the completion of projects worth millions of shillings in the region. ALSO READ:

Don’t misinterpret handshake for political pact, warns Uhuru According to some leaders, Uhuru assured the county of his support for ongoing projects, including those that are behind schedule. Uhuru also hosted the finalists of the 2018 Kenya National Music Festivals to a winners’ gala at Sagana State Lodge in Nyeri at the weekend. The leaders met briefly with Uhuru before the event to request an appointment to discuss the region's development projects. According to Governor Mutahi Kahiga, the meeting focused on how to foster a good working relationship between the county and Uhuru's government. Discussed healthcare Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. "We discussed universal healthcare, which is one of the Big Four agenda items. As one of the four counties to pilot it, we briefed the President on our preparedness to roll out the programme," Mr Kahiga said. The leaders also discussed the completion of key projects such as Ruring'u Stadium as well as Karatina and Chaka markets. "We are united for the sake of development, this is why we felt we should articulate our issues as a team," the governor said. ALSO READ:

Coup plot in Jubilee unearthed Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said politics was not discussed during the meeting. "We went to the meeting specifically to discuss key development projects and to support each other's priority projects in individual constituencies," he said. Tetu MP James Gichuhi said the meeting gave leaders a chance to speak about their people's needs. Water project "I spoke about the Kaigoji water project that I feel will have a positive impact on my constituents," he said. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua said the meeting united Nyeri leaders. "We may have our differences but when it comes to development we have a common goal," he said. ALSO READ:

Ruto's forays into Western Kenya wasted effort Other leaders who attended the meeting were Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), Kanini Kega (Kieni), Senator Ephraim Maina, Woman Representative Rahab Mukami and Anthony Kiai (Mukurweini).