  Structures erected next to rivers will be demolished in the next two weeks, the National Environmental Management Authority (Nema) has announced. According to a list obtained by The Standard, some of the condemned buildings and walls are situated at the palatial Elgon View estate. ALSO READ:

Southend Mall to be completely flattened in 7 days Semi-permanent houses built at Kingongo area are also the authority's target with the demolition. Other areas to be cleared include Kipkaren and Huruma, where individuals have erected walls and houses near a river. The authority has written to owners of the structures and given them two weeks to remove them. "You are advised to remove the structure at your own cost or they will be brought down without further reference to you on expiry of this notice. Thereafter, the cost will be passed to you," read the letter signed by the County Nema director of environment Boniface Birichi. Earlier warnings of demolitions of structures near River Sosiani were not effected. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. "This is the second letter we are writing to the individuals after engaging them in April 2016, when some chose to paint over our demolition marks," said Mr Birichi. Also affected is the perimeter wall of a school in the outskirts of Eldoret town and a house next to Sugunanga River. Nema has also identified walls and buildings near Odai, Kipkarren and Ndonyo bridges. ALSO READ:

Poll: Kenyans split on direction country is headed Others targeted are a building and a wall established at the town's crematorium. The county administration has vowed to protect the rivers, saying the natural resources offered a lifeline for residents. "Those building next to the river should realise that they are contributing to the destruction of our water sources. They are also polluting the environment," said deputy governor Daniel Chemno. Last week, county officials demolished 10 buildings erected on a road reserve next to Kapsabet stage. But the buildings' owners criticised the demolition, saying they were not given adequate notice and had been paying taxes for them. “I applied for all documents before erecting buildings. I have been paying rates to the county office and it is painful that they have demolished them without any warning,” said Robert Limo. ALSO READ:

Manchester United’s Matic sends message to Kenyan fans