Governor Alfred Mutua (above) has made another 26 appointments and nominations as the dispute between him and MCAs continues to rage. This came just days after newly appointed executives took office without vetting after the county assembly failed to approve them within 21 days of their nomination. ALSO READ:

House vows to bring down governor over illegal appointments MCAs consequently vowed not to recognise Mutua's executives, claiming the governor acted outside the law. Many believe the grounds on which MCAs rejected all the five nominees were largely influenced by political biases than the legal requirements for vetting. And while making the announcement at his office yesterday, Mutua said the appointments and nominations were a culmination of fair and competitive exercise. Among those appointed was Grace Munguti who takes over as county secretary. She initially served as a chief officer. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. He said the county secretary and a few other officers will not be vetted as they were already in county government employment. New position Mutua also created a new position of chief officer in charge of resource mobilisation. He said the officer will be required to create a pool resources from donors and NGOs. “This is a new area which has not been exploited and we believe this docket can get us development funds equivalent to what we get from the national government,” Mutua said. ALSO READ:

Mutua's cabinet nominees sworn in He called on the county assembly to speed up vetting of the nominees to accelerate development and service delivery. “Today, I have appointed and nominated several qualified and experienced persons for the positions of county secretary and chief officers. I expect the county assembly to fast-track their vetting within the dictates of law so we can accelerate development and service delivery,” said Mutua. In addition, Mutua appointed three advisers including former Standard Group's Katua Nzile, for media and communication, Dr Ann Kalei (Education and Change Management) and Dr Kituku Nzyoka (health) 