Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti has issued a stern warning against members of his cabinet over intentions of sabotaging his Government. Awiti said those who have failed to discharge their duties effectively will have to face the sack as this amounts to sabotaging him. ALSO READ:

Governor threatens to sack Cabinet members The Governor said he had noticed that some of his CEC members had intentions demonstrating laxity in their duties to undermine his administration. Speaking at the opening of Miriu Level Four hospital in Karachuonyo Constituency, Awiti said he will not allow any county official to cause loopholes in his leadership. “There are officials who sleep on their jobs because the Governor is the to blame in case of any failure. This is tantamount to sabotaging my administration and I will not allow it,” said Awiti. The Governor said the only remedy he had was to sack the officials.  “I am not joking because the people of Homa Bay need services. I will sack any of my ministers found sleeping on their job because they were appointed to serve the people,” said the Governor. The statement corroborates that of his deputy Hamilton Orata who said their administration will not fail due to CECs with ill minds. “We are not ready to let any county official fail to deliver services to Homa Bay resident. We will show you the door to let another person who can serve residents effectively take the post,” said Orata. Awiti ordered the CECs to complete various pending development projects in their dockets. ALSO READ:

Haji goes for county officials in graft purge According to the governor, each of CEC will be allocated funds to their dockets to enable them initiate and complete development projects across the county. He ordered Trade CEC Carelus Ademba to complete Kigoto maize mill and Animal feed projects in Suba South and Homa Bay Town Constituencies. The governor further told county residents to register their complaints against the CECs who don’t deliver, while urging residents to be patient in waiting for some development project because they receive little funds from the National Treasury. “Even Rome was not built in a day. Let the residents be patient but we are going to ensure some of our flagship projects such the Kigoto maize mill operate in November this year,” he added. 