Some MCAs from Kirinyaga County Assembly at a press conference where their leader Kinyua wa Wangui hinted a motion to censure their Finance Chairman Jenaro Njaamumo over alleged misconduct. [File, Standard] Three MCAs have opposed a committee set up to investigate two county executives. ALSO READ:

MCAs adopt motion to increase bursary fund to Sh6 million The county assembly established the team after local human rights activists accused Finance Executive Mary Mugwanja and her Cooperatives counterpart Rose Wamuiya of incompetence. However, Kipipiri MCA Paul Ngeche and his nominated counterparts Wangari Methu and Mary Waweru claimed the members were picked way before a meeting that was to decide the committee's composition. The MCAs accused Speaker Ndegwa Wahome of having vested interests in the matter, claiming he influenced selection of the committee members. Those selected to the team are Kamau Gathungu (Githioro), Sambigi Mukuria (Gatimu), Kieru Wambui, majority whip Hussein Kassana and nominated MCA Esther Nyambura. The trio said they feared the team was highly unlikely to submit an objective report over the matter, due to its composition and alleged vested interests. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. “Selection of members to the committee was unfair and we fear their report is already pre-determined. We want the speaker to tell the House what interests he has in the matter," said Methu, who read a statement on behalf of her colleagues. She claimed the petition to investigate the ministers was amended even before it was tabled on the floor of the House by the Speaker. "The original petition listed the speaker as a witness following his disclosure that Sh14.4 million may have been lost through an investment forum that did not take place last year," said the statement. ALSO READ:

Fight against corruption masks the real issues However, Ndegwa has denied the claims, saying the five were unanimously agreed upon by an 11-member House Business Committee, before they were approved by assembly the same way. 