  Five Nairobi City County staff and a businessman have been charged with conspiracy to steal Sh997,926 from the County assembly. The senior staff included Assembly Clerk Jacob Ngwele, Deputy Clerk Adah Onyango, senior procurement officer James Kariuki, senior finance and Planning Officer Fredrick Mwangi, principal accountant Philomena Nzuki and businessman Raphael Maluki. ALSO READ:

DPP wants tycoon Kumar’s wealth investigated Maluki, the proprietor of Primara Ventures Ltd was accused of receiving the money from the County assembly as payment for supply of books for the County assembly resource centre when the books had not been delivered. Mr Ngwele faced other charges of abuse of office and wilful failure to comply with procurement rules when he allegedly used his office to confer the benefit to Primara Ventures Ltd for goods not supplied. The other officials faced additional charges of undue influence and conflict of interest by failing to disclose that they had shares in the companies irregularly awarded contracts by the assembly. “On June 29 2017, the officials jointly conferred a benefit to Primara Ventures Ltd and fraudulently made payments of Sh997,926 to the company for books not delivered thereby causing the County assembly to lose public funds,” read the charge sheet. The accused were charged following investigations after the County Assembly's internal audit report for the 2016/2017 financial year showed discrepancies in financial expenditure. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 According to the prosecution, the audit report revealed that Primara Ventures was irregularly awarded a tender for the supply of books to the Nairobi County Assembly Resource Centre and the money paid on June 29, 2017 although no books were supplied. They all denied the charges before senior principal magistrate Lawrence Mugambi who released each on a cash bail of Sh300,000.  ALSO READ:

Five grilled over shooting of former Garissa County official