Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu has been arrested at the Supreme Court and taken to DCI headquarters for questioning over alleged graft. After the arrest, the Deputy CJ was escorted by Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti. ALSO READ:

Corruption, what would Jesus do? Reliable source from the Judiciary hinted to The Standard that Philomena Mwilu was arrested in a crackdown at the Supreme Court over allegations of financial impropriety. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji who has been spearheading the war against corruption, addressed the media shortly after her arrest. During the press briefing, the DPP said Mwilu will be charged with abuse of office, receiving bribe and failing to pay taxes. "The evidence in our possession, reveals that: Lady Justice Mwilu abused her office for personal gain. Accepted a gift in the form of money in circumstances which undermined public confidence in the integrity of her office, conducted herself in disregard of the law. In view of the above, I have concluded that the evidence is sufficient with a reasonable prospect of conviction and it is in the public interest that criminal proceedings should be preferred," said DPP Haji DCJ Mwilu is also said to have obtained execution of a security belonging to Imperial Bank Limited by false pretense and unlawfully failing to pay taxes. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. DPP said that it was about time Kenyans got justice seeing as the “country is being torn apart by people placed in positions of trust but who in turn abuse this trust.” Notably, Mwilu’s arrest was of significance since it was the first time the DPP appeared publicly to give fresh accounts of ongoing graft cases, while also explaining her arrest. This comes after several meetings of the Judicial Service Commission and the Judiciary hours before the arrest. ALSO READ:

Sapit lauds Uhuru's war on graft The DPP also insisted that his office was independent and the decision to arrest the Deputy Chief Justice was not pegged on any political inclinations. President Uhuru Kenyatta has been pushing for a more intensified war against corruption while calling upon all leaders in the country to help fight graft. The President has also been emphasizing that nobody can be spared if found guilty of corruption.