Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has listed 15 public facilities whose land he said had been grabbed and must be surrendered. Sonko took to social media to order those who operate their businesses and live on grabbed land must vacate as soon as possible. ALSO READ:

Grabbed prime plot returned “Better be a one term governor and leave a legacy than entertaining grabbing of public land and utilities,” Sonko wrote on Facebook listing Langata Primary School among facilities whose land had been grabbed. He instructed that those on grabbed lands should remove their valuables from the public utilities with immediate effect The Governor further ordered that all grabbed land in all the estates within Nairobi that were reserved for playgrounds should be returned to the government. Sonko was adamant that those who conspired to approve building plans on public utilities would be prosecuted alongside the suspected land grabbers.  This directive also includes public social halls, all encroachments on public land including houses constructed on sewer lines and the Nairobi water pipe-line. Sonko additionally revealed that his own plot in Buru Buru Estate and another belonging to a former MP are among those on county public roads and will be relinquished. The Governor also listed Gigiri and Ruaraka fire-stations, Highridge Hospital in Parklands and the New Muthaiga Thigiri Ridge County Dispensary and Nursery School. Other school lands on Sonko’s list include St. Catherine Primary, Buruburu Girls, Martin Luther Primary, Kamkunji Secondary and Langata Secondary. ALSO READ:

Multi-billion buildings facing demolition Grabbed land reserved for South C market and another for Nyayo Estate Police Post is also listed. According to the governor’s post, other property to be handed over include the Pumwani Hospital expansion areas, Eastleigh County Market and Mwariro County Market. The move comes three days after the National Environment Management Authority embarked on demolition of buildings constructed on riparian land. Among those that were brought down include Java House in Kileleshwa and Southend Mall that was located at the junction of Mbagathi Way and Langata Road.