NAIROBI, KENYA: We often hear people talk about the future of work but what does this mean and what does the future of work look like? Many of the buzz words we hear; artificial intelligence, machine learning, blockchain, big data etc. are already concepts being used in forward-thinking businesses. Mobile is not only deeply ingrained in our personal lives now, the concept of the ‘mobile office’ and reliance on mobile technology to run our businesses is not new anymore, it has become an expectation and many of us wonder how we could possibly do business without it. ALSO READ:

How to earn money from mobile apps The digital revolution is already upon us and if we think that technology and the effect it has on lifestyle and business is moving quickly now, we should brace ourselves, as it is not going to slow down. Companies cannot ignore or avoid technology; it is becoming so deeply ingrained in all areas of our daily lives that it is now part of our DNA. Whether in our personal or professional lives, technology-enabled devices has become an expectation and is no longer a nice-to-have. If businesses do not embrace it as a core component to the future of work, their competitors will grab it with both hands and gain the edge, leaving them behind as a distant memory. The work place is changing rapidly and not only do businesses have to contend with constant technology innovation, other factors such as market disruptors create new competition and the multi-generational work force have many different demands on companies, which create new challenges. With organisations becoming more digital and future-focused, hiring and nurturing new skill sets is also an important consideration. All employees must now be able to be comfortable with the digital environment but also skills such as critical thinking, digital mindset and collaboration, emotional intelligence, dynamic problem solving, multi-cultural intelligence and functional agility are becoming more important in the new world of work.  We often read or hear about how the millennial (those born between 1980 – 2000) are placing new demands on companies. These demands cannot be put on the back-shelf any longer, to remain competitive in the marketplace and keep employees engaged, appeal to new talent and stay ahead of competitors, businesses are being forced to address these demands and find ways to keep millennial engaged, while balancing the needs of older generational employees. Whilst this may seem challenging enough, the next generation – generation Z are currently making choices about their future careers. This group will have a new set of demands. There is certainly no breathing space for companies doing business in today’s fast-paced world. On Wednesday 15th August, Ayaan hosted an event at Nairobi Garage, which focused on exploring ways to ensure businesses are more prepared and can actively begin creating strategies to ensure they attract, acquire and keep the best people in an expanding digital world. Ayaan is author of the upcoming book – Digital HR Unleashed; 6 ways to harness powerful solutions fast to enhance your business and stay ahead of your competitors. The book will be released in October. ALSO READ:

Kenyan tech start-ups losing funding to Rwanda, Uganda