The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) party continued to stamp its authority in Nyanza after it won two ward by-elections in Migori and Kisii. The party retained the North Kadem and  Basi Chache  wards  in Nyatike  and Bobasi Chache  constituencies  respectively in by-elections marked  by low  voter turn outs. ALSO READ:

Voting on in Baringo South by-election (Photos) In North Kadem ward, Lucas Owiti Wagai of ODM beat William Okinyi of Maendeleo Chap Chap party by 3,715 to 1,870votes with a voter turnout of   43 per cent, according to returning officer Wesley Ruto. Earlier in the day, there  were  fracas  that led  to the arrest of two people  as  the two candidates  visited  various  polling stations. Only the two candidates contested the seat left vacant when area MCA Boaz Okoth was elected the County's County Assembly Speaker. Mr  Ruto  said  only  5,585  of  the 12, 974  registered  voters  in the ward turned  up to cast their ballots. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. At the same time The CRO Mr. Ruto told the press that there was chaos in two polling stations that is Nyora and Modi. “All polling station were opened at 6:00 AM  in the morning where the voting started smoothly but at around 10 AM the two aspirants found themselves at Modi polling station were their supports clash,” Said Ruto. The win in Nyatike has given the Orange party more hope as it campaigns to retain the Migori senate seat on October 9. The part has nominated former Energy Minister Ochillo Ayacko as its candidate for the seat left vacant following the death of Ben Oluoch Okello. ALSO READ:

IEBC assure Baringo residents of credible poll amid bribery claims Mr  Ayacko will battle it  out  with Five other  candidates. In Basi Chache, ODM candidate Japheth Ombeo got 2,406 votes to trounce his closest challenger- Fred Sambu who garnered 1,749 votes. Returning officer, Moses Daula said the elections were peaceful although hit by low voter turnout. The win is a big boost to Kisii Governor James Ongwae, who campaigned for Mr  Ombeo. The by-election was occasioned by a decision by Ombeo who got 1291 votes to successfully file a petition at the Ogembo Court challenging the election of Sambu who got 1353 votes in the August 2017 general election. Others  who vied for  the seat included ; Andrew Oseko (FORD-KENYA ), James Magange(National Agenda Party), Haroun Masese(Maendeleo Chap Chap), Zephania Nyangoto (Liberal Party of Kenya), Vincent Kerosi (Kenya Social Congress), Samwel Gwaro(Peoples Empowerment Party) and Hezekiah Bosire ( Republican Party of Kenya). ALSO READ:

Trio eyeing Baringo South seat intensify campaigns