Kisumu’s referral hospital is investigating a top surgeon accused of soliciting cash to save the life of a four-year-old girl who was defiled a year ago. Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital Chief Executive Officer Peter Okoth said disciplinary procedures had been initiated against the doctor, who allegedly demanded Sh150,000 to conduct a corrective surgery on the minor battling fistula. ALSO READ:

Man charged with conspiracy to defraud Moi The doctor is claimed to have abandoned the minor after performing four surgeries. No charges Okoth clarified that the hospital did not charge patients in such cases and described the incident as “unfortunate and lacking in human emotion”. The hospital, he said, had made arrangements to have another paediatric surgeon who “was away for training in China and is currently honing skills at the Moi Referral Hospital” brought to complete the treatment. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The girl was defiled by a 15-year-old neighbour, who lured her to a secluded thicket near their home on September 10, last year. Her groans caught the attention of a woman passing by at around 7pm. The minor developed what is technically referred to as traumatic gynaecological fistula that left her with a ripped vagina and rectum. Before they were allegedly asked to pay Sh150,000 for a procedure to put back her intestine, the girl had undergone four surgical operations, three which were done by the accused doctor. ALSO READ:

Brother of Russian opposition leader freed after 3.5 years “The doctor explained to me that the extent of injury suffered by the girl required a special surgery,” the mother recounted. Unable to repair the damage in the first two surgeries, the doctor performed colostomy on the girl. This is a surgical procedure that brings one end of the large intestine out through the abdominal wall and a hole made to externally collect feaces. In the fourth operation he sewed the tear, a surgery whose success he was to assess in three weeks’ time and book the girl for the reverse colostomy. “He then told me that he would call back in three weeks to conduct the reverse operation that would restore her normal life,” she narrated. However, efforts to reach the doctor for arrangements on the last operation were met with demands for cash, she claimed. Private clinic She claimed the doctor at one time asked them to take the girl to his private clinic for the surgery at a lower fee. ALSO READ:

Woman sues hospital over pre-surgery hunger session The doctor, who cannot be named for legal reasons, has, however, fought off the claims, saying the surgery was due for September 7, and that he had not solicited payment for operations done at the facility. The surgeon, who also runs a private hospital, said he was shocked to learn that his name was being dragged in the mud over a procedure that was due. The trial of the rape suspect, a Class Six, who first appeared at the Winam Court last September, is yet to kick off due to constant transfer of investigating officers.