Kisumu Governor , Prof Peter Anyang' Nyong'o who is also the Chancellor of the Great Lakes University of Kisumu (GLUK) conferred degrees to grandstands at the University's 12th graduation ceremony at the main campus in Kibos. [Photo: John Oywa/ Standard] The county government plans to construct a training school for public servants at a cost of Sh100 million. ALSO READ:

Men charged with theft of toothbrush The Kisumu County School of Government (KCSG) will offer training on management and public administration. It will also conduct research and offer advisory services. The Standard yesterday established that the money for the construction, which was factored in this county’s Sh9.2 billion budget, has been approved by the county assembly. According to Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, the programme aimed to equip civil servants with relevant skills and build capacity. “The Kisumu County government recognises that success lies in its employees, and so the need to train and retrain its workforce to boost excellent service delivery is key. “We are also aware that to maintain a committed, competent and innovative workforce, there is a need to enhance employees’ opportunity to develop skills and abilities for work,” he said. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 14 counties The KCSG, the first such institution in western Kenya, will also train public servants from the 14 counties that form the Lake Region Economic bloc. The institution will help the county’s public service to reform and provide strategic and innovative policy advice to the authorities. ALSO READ:

County seeks nod for Sh6b referral hospital According to the budget committee chairman, Stephen Owiti, the assembly also approved Sh50 million for the construction of the public service board administration block. Mr Owiti defended the budgetary allocation for the Kisumu public service sector totalling Sh250 million, saying it would boost efficiency, coordination and performance. “It will create, promote and maintain high values of integrity, impartiality, accountability and leadership in the county government public sector,” explained Owiti. Although officials did not give details about the project, the budget timelines indicated that by 2022, the construction of KCSG would be 75 per cent complete.