National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale and Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali addresses the media after the No confidence voting of various Committees Chairpersons at Parliament on Tuesday 23/01/19. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] MPs have been criticised for failing to follow procedure when presenting censure motions. ALSO READ:

MPs pass Serem's new job National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale took issue with recent reports in the media in which MPs have indicted several Cabinet secretaries without moving any substantive motions and prosecuting the matter, as directed by Speaker Justin Muturi on June 10, 2014. He described the actions as 'populist impeachment motions geared towards igniting public rage'. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa was criticised for his impeachment bid against National Treasury CS Henry Rotich over the imported sugar scandal and the Sh1.5 billion paid for the Ruaraka land. “I have nothing personal against the MP but he is out of order. For one to moot an impeachment motion, he or she must state the grounds and present them to the office of the clerk for consideration and approval,” explained Mr Duale. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Append signatures The Garissa Township MP said once the matter was approved, the MP would attach a blank paper and leave it at the Parliamentary reception, where colleagues would append signatures if they supported the motion. “You don’t need to walk around parliamentary corridors, bar, cafeteria and the media centre to solicit signatures and issue press statements on the matter to state your position,” said Duale, who spoke during the graduation ceremony of 387 research assistants for MPs and personal assistants trained by Parliament. Duale, who was representing Mr Muturi, urged officials to advise legislators on House procedures and practice. ALSO READ:

ODM rescues Speaker Oloo from impeachment Mr Barasa said he had garnered 102 signatures but has yet to share the contents of the motion or the list of MPs backing his bid 