Co-operative unions have cautioned MPs against outlawing the export of unprocessed coffee. Union representatives, under the National Coffee Co-operative Union (NACCU), spoke against a proposed amendment to the Crops Act seeking to ban the export of raw coffee beans. They said the amendment by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria would not solve challenges facing the coffee sector. Officials from unions in Bungoma, Mt Elgon, Kipkelion, Kiambu, Murang’a, Machakos, Meru Central and Lower Eastern Coffee Millers said amending the law would only worsen an already bad situation. “What we need to do is to protect the small-scale farmers, who have been neglected and left at the mercy of middlemen who have been exploiting them,” said NACCU chairman Joseph Koskei at a Nakuru hotel. Mr Koskei said instead of rushing to change the law, Parliament should engage stakeholders so they could find solutions to problems in the sector. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “We address ourselves to the Crops Amendment Bill 2018, where an MP has made a proposal seeking to amend Section 40 of the Crops Act (2013) to ensure the coffee grown in counties undergo processing, production and packaging in Kenya and may only be distributed, marketed and exported in processed form,” said Koskei. “The coffee industry in Kenya is over 100 years old and as stakeholders, we have reservations because the said proposal does not seem to add value to the small-scale farmers,” he added. “Value addition is a good idea because it is meant to increase foreign exchange, create employment and increase farmers’ earnings. However, it is an expensive affair that requires proper planning and funds. Our problems have nothing to do with pricing of coffee or marketing but neglect of farmers.” Koskei urged the Government to put in place structures to support local millers and farmers to increase coffee production. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru also opposed Mr Kuria’s Bill and urged Parliament to consult stakeholders before taking a step. “The problem is not the form in which our coffee is exported but the market. If we get better markets for our crop, we will increase returns for our farmers,” Ms Waiguru said yesterday. She said the short shelf-life of processed coffee would also pose a challenge for farmers and processors if they did not get ready markets should the Bill go through.