  Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu has suspended two executives less than one year after they took office. Kiambu Health Executive James Murega and his Trade counterpart Isabela Waiyaki were reportedly handed suspension letters on Tuesday morning. ALSO READ:

Resident seeks to stop Sh16b road plan Sources at the county headquarters, who requested anonymity for fear of victimisation, said the two officials were suspended for being perceived to be close to Deputy Governor James Nyoro. Mr Waititu and Mr Nyoro are embroiled in a bitter fallout over management of county affairs. Yesterday, Waititu confirmed he had suspended the two for seven days over the management of their respective dockets. The county chief said he suspended Dr Murega because of a crisis that has rocked the health department for the past few months. There have been complaints about congestion, lack of drugs and food in many county hospitals. “We have been having problems in our hospitals and we want to investigate if (Murega) is the one at fault,” said Waititu. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Concerning the trade docket he said: “So many things are happening at the trade department without me being involved. Somethings are not going the right way and  people are complaining.” The governor said all executives in the county must keep him and Kiambu residents updated on the goings-on in their dockets. Waititu said he had instructed executives to respond in writing over claims made against them. ALSO READ:

Puzzle of Sh30 million held in secret accounts On his part, Nyoro said he suspected the two officials were suspended after they were seen with him recently. “We should be working as a team and what is happening is very sad. We are being led by petty issues,” he said. Nyoro met the Health Executive recently during a funeral of a mutual friend. He also added that Ms Waiyaki recently called him, by virtue of him being an  agricultural expert, to inform him of a delegation from Nebraska, US.