  Leaders from across the country will today converge in Kitale to commemorate the 15th anniversary of the death of the former Vice President Michael Kijana Wamalwa. Majority of politicians from Western Kenya are expected at the fete, since the former Vice President who died less than a year after assuming office under the Narc administration, was considered as a uniting factor for communities that reside in the region. ALSO READ:

Western leaders want commission of inquiry on sugar Mr Wamalwa passed away at the Royal Free hospital in London where he was receiving treatment on 23rd August 2003. On Wednesday,   Water Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa, said top leaders from the Luhya community are among those who have confirmed attendance, with the politicians expected to make a major announcement at the ceremony. Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya boss Moses Wetangula and COTU secretary general Francis Atwoli are among those who have confirmed their attendance. Governors from the region, Senators, MPs and a host of MCAs are also expected to attend the ceremony which will be held at the late VP’s home in Milimani, Kitale according to the CS. The anniversaries of the late VP have in the past been a ground of heightened political activity which has seen leaders the clamour for Luhya unity and today’s event may likely not be any different. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. This is because it comes at the backdrop of a high voltage politics on sugar sector in the region that faces a threat of collapsing.  CS Wamalwa and his political nemesis Senator Wetang’ula have also mended fences. Speaking on Tuesday during a meeting of Luhya leaders, National Assembly Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali said the community leaders will make a major political statement at the event. “We will make our stand on key issues affecting the region and the nation as whole known during the anniversary of our late brother Michael Kijana,” explained the Mumias East MP   at the meeting attended by over twenty elected leaders from the region. ALSO READ:

Cotu boss roots for 2022 fund Apart from Wamalwa, Lusaka, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula, Governors Wilberforce Otichilo (Vihiga) and Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) were present at the meetings. MPs included   Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi), Justus Murunga (Matungu), John Waluke (Sirisia), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani) and Ferdinand Wanyonyi (Kwanza). Others were    Titus Khamala (Lurambi), Raphael Wanjala (Budalang’i), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia),  Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Janet Nangabo(Trans-Nzoia), Ojiambo Oundo (Funyula) and  Ferdinand Wanyonyi( Kwanza). 