Nakuru County government is on a high alert over possibility of an outbreak of the rift valley fever reported in the neighboring Baringo County. The viral disease was reported in Baringo South last week after laboratory examination was done following abortions and death of several stock. ALSO READ:

Two dogs bite five-year-old boy Chief Officer of agriculture Enos Amuyunzu said veterinary officers have been delayed to various sub counties where they are doing surveillance on the disease. “As a County, we are on a very high alert to prevent outbreak of rift valley fever, we have a team of veterinary officers working on surveillance that will enable us act swiftly,” said Amuyunzu. Amuyunzu said location of Nakuru places it at high risk of contracting the viral disease caused by mosquito bites among others because it has stock routes. Livestock from Kajiado, Narok, Kericho, Baringo, Limuru, Nyandarua and Laikipia counties pass through the County to markets in other counties.  Because of the free movement, local livestock get infected with various diseases, including anthrax, foot and mouth, rabies and East Coast fever among others. “There is a lot of stock routes in Nakuru from neighboring counties that keep on contaminating environment,” he said. The department is also sensitizing farmers on the disease whose symptoms in livestock include nasal discharge, excess salivation, and loss of appetite, weakness, diarrhea and abortions. In human being, the disease is spread through contact with infected animals and symptoms include back ache, weight loss, dizziness, liver abnormalities, weakness, head ache and muscle pain. ALSO READ:

Over 200 livestock die in Baringo of suspected rift valley fever He said the virus can be transmitted to human beings through the handling of animal tissue during slaughtering, during births or while conducting veterinary procedures “Farmers are advised to notify extension officers in case they spot any signs of rift valley fever for swift action,” said Amuyunzu. The chief officer said sensitization is done following the ongoing rains that contributes to high breeding of mosquitos in various parts of the country. Areas that are prone to the disease is Gilgil, Naivasha and Rongai because of high cases of flooding reported. “There is increased risk of the outbreak of rift valley fever which affects both human and livestock due to increased cases of flooding,” she said. Last outbreak of the disease according to the officer was recorded during El Nino rains in 2006/7 where around 160 people and a loss of Sh4billion having been recorded in livestock sector. To prevent contracting the disease, public health officer Samuel King’ori asked member of the public to be more cautious and avoid consuming meat that has not been inspected. ALSO READ:

Governor, ward reps agree on budget Mr King’ori slaughtering and consumption of sick or dead animals should be avoided and all suspicious deaths of livestock reported to respective offices for investigations. “We are asking members of the public to avoid consuming meat that has not been inspected to curb diseases,” he said. Veterinary offices are also doing massive vaccination of other livestock diseases including foot and mouth, rabies, Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR) disease and skin lumpy disease. Outbreak of PPR disease was reported in Rongai Sub County after several samples were taken to government laboratories in Kabete. The disease was also reported in parts of Maela infects sheep and goats. Example of symptoms livestock present after infection include sudden onset of depression, discharge of from eyes and nose, fever, sores on the mouth, difficult breathing and cough and diarrhea with foul smell. Two months ago, ring vaccination for anthrax was also done in Rongai following an outbreak of anthrax that caused huge economical losses.  ALSO READ:

County officials challenge manslaughter charges