As he wound up an intense weekend tour of Meru County yesterday, Deputy President William Ruto appeared to be paying particular attention to areas in Mt Kenya where he is considered to have staunch support. Accompanied by Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui, who landed in Meru on Friday apparently to lay ground for the visit, the DP launched what are considered critical Jubilee campaign projects for MeruCounty. ALSO READ:

Uhuru, Raila parties don’t inspire hope The DP also arrived in Meru on Friday evening and held a closed-door meeting at Heritage Nkubu attended by Governor Kiraitu Murungi and his deputy Titus Ntuchiu, nine of the 12 legislators from the area and MCAs. Senator Mithika Linturi, Woman Representative Kawira Mwangaza and Igembe South MP Maoka Maore were absent with apologies. South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi praised the DP for pushing for key water projects. Igembe Central politician James Mithika, a key ally of Ruto in Meru and the former chairman of the disbanded United Republican Party, put it more candidly: "The saying that out of sight is out of mind is manifestly true in politics. It is with this in mind that the DP is constantly reminding the Mt Kenya political bloc that he is in the race lest they forget him in the midst of emerging political alliances." Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu says Ruto’s is a classic case of hoping for the best but preparing for the worst. “He wants to show he will not wait for President Kenyatta to give him a leg up in Mt Kenya region but will sell himself,” Ngunjiri said yesterday. “If he has Mt Kenya behind him, then it would be easier for him to get the Rift Valley vote in case another candidate from the region shows interest in 2022. That way he can say that he has a greater chance,” he added. The DP's visits, especially in Murang’a and Kirinyaga, have been centred around fundraisers in schools and churches. On Friday, he was in Murang’a for two fundraisers barely a week after he was in the county for the homecoming ceremony of Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro. Nyoro, a first term MP, is one of Ruto’s fiercest defenders. ALSO READ:

Mr Ruto, a clever trap is being laid out for you Today, the DP is expected in Nyeri for another fundraiser hosted by Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua. But Linford Mutembei, chairman of Mount Kenya Youth Caucus, said Ruto would have little success charming the region without the hand of President Kenyatta. 