MOMBASA, KENYA: After waiting for five years in vain for the national government to fulfill its pledge of constructing stadiums in all major towns, Mombasa County Government has decided to take up the matter. The Hassan Joho led county has set aside 1.2 billion to facelift the dilapidated Mombasa Stadium, which was closed three years ago for renovations but later abandoned half way. ALSO READ:

Kingi, Joho host Coast MCAs in push for party Mombasa County Chief Executive Officer of Sports Rajab Babu told a high-powered parliamentary committee on sports led by its Chairman Victor Munyaka that the county has set aside Sh 1.2 billion for the facility. “Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has shown interest in having an international standard stadia in the county,” said Babu. Babu who is also the coach of the Harambee Stars beach team said the process of procurement has begun and is expected to be completed soon. “We have sourced for expertise from Spain and Turkey and we expect to come up with a world class stadium,” said Babu. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He said the current stadium will be modernised to accommodate 20,000 spectators from the current 13,000 and will be completed within 12 months from the start date. Culture and Heritage Principal Secretary Josephta Mukombe who accompanied the parliamentary team reiterated the government’s stand on constructing stadiums in all the 47 counties. “Government's vision is to construct sports infrastructure in all the 47 counties to encourage young boys and girls to take up sports as a career,” said the PS. "Some of the sports infrastructure are yet to be constructed while others are either on going or upgraded," she said.   Mukombe said the Mombasa stadium was meant for upgrading to international status because the county is a tourism hub. ALSO READ:

Balala, Joho, Kingi meet to boost tourism at the Coast Mukombe acknowledge the sports facility belonged to the county government and the government is ready to collaborate with it to see the facility is up to the standard.