Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso when she appeared to answer on audit queries before the Senate Public Accounts Committee at Parliament on Wednesday 20/06/18. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] Members of the Bomet County assembly have rejected a nominee for the sports and youth docket in the executive committee. ALSO READ:

MCAs want streets named after locals During heated debate that pitted elected MCAs against their nominated counterparts, the leaders declined to approve Jackline Kirui’s name, saying she was not qualified. This is the third nominee forwarded by Governor Joyce Laboso (pictured) for the docket that the county assembly has rejected. The leader of majority, Josphat Kirui, while moving a motion on Tuesday seeking the adoption of a report of the committee on appointments, said Ms Kirui had failed to articulate to the committee her reasons for wanting the post. “While she exhibited honesty, she clearly lacked the relevant experience to drive the ministry. She did not articulate herself well or elaborate what she wants to do for the youth of this county,” said Mr Kirui. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Nyangores ward representative Andrew Maritim, who seconded the motion, said Kirui did not exhibit any problem-solving abilities. Mr Maritim, who is also the leader of minority, said the nominee did not show an understanding of the department she was being picked to head. “Mr Speaker, what we are presenting before this house is actually what we saw and heard from the nominee during vetting. It is not a witch-hunt and the executive should take the move positively,” said Maritim. An attempt by Kipreres MCA Philip Korir to amend the motion failed as he did did not get secondment. ALSO READ:

Ward reps demand list of staff in bias dispute “It cannot be that all the three nominees have failed to meet the requirements. This assembly has turned into a house of witch-hunts,” said Mr Korir, adding that the rejection had denied residents adequate representation. 