NAIROBI, KENYA: Alfred Keter's loss of  the Nandi Hills  seat caught many by surprise coming at a time when the firebrand MP is making for the wrong reasons. Alfred Keter has been a thorn in the flesh of his sponsoring party, Jubilee, ever since he criticised the awarding of the the multi-billion-shilling  Standard Gauge Railway  tender to Chinese firm, the Gilgil Weighbridge affair where he assaulted workers and the latest  arrest and arraignment in court on suspicion of attempting to encash forged  Treasury Bills worth Sh633m to the Central Bank of Kenya in company of businessmen Madat Chatur and Arthur Sakwa. ALSO READ:

DP Ruto missed figures on Kenya’s debt position The January 2015 Gilgil Weighbridge affair Serving his first time as an MP, Keter made news after a video footage of him hurling unprintable insults at officers went viral on social media. In the video, Keter stormed the Gilgil Weighbridge Station accompanied by nominated MP Sunjeev Kaur Birdi said to be linked to the heavy special trucks that were impounded because the driver had no special clearance certificates from the Kenya National Highways Authority (KenHa). In the video, Keter pushes the officers to release the trucks and is overheard questioning why they refused to pick calls from the then State House Comptroller Lawrence Lenayapa, Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Osman Warfa, National Assembly National Security Committee Chairman Asman Kamama and an unnamed OCPD, whom he alleged were trying to sort out the matter. Keter is heard bragging that MPs make laws and can break them at will. "Tell me who is the owner of that company... Are they Ugandans subcontracting? In whose interest? We are the ones who legislate. We make laws for this country. No way. Okay, listen. We will reverse the law, but we have to sack the people and we have to reverse the law," Keter shouts. He goes ahead: "It is so mad. Imagine State House Comptroller... that is the President communicating, he is calling, no one is picking. I called no one responds. I am a Member of Parliament. Chairman of security committee in Kenya, Kamama calls, no one picks. We are about 10 Members of Parliament. You are waiting to hear from who? From God? Jesus Christ to call you? Go away.....We are the ones who make the law. When we want to break it we break it when we want. When the President calls, you have to respect. Whether you are... I don't care. State House Comptroller calls then you say you can't release the lorries?" "The person who runs the contract will lose it. This is the Hon Keter. I fight big wars. I don't fight small wars. You can even call the media and cover here. I will tell them the story. Tell your boss he is stupid. Even tomorrow there will be no job. Is this Kenya or Uganda... Is this France? Go away. I have to see the President himself. Leave here tomorrow. Handcuff me," Keter shouts. But State House has since rejected Keter's claims that the Comptroller tried to arm-twist the weighbridge officials. ALSO READ:

DP Ruto’s call to political class January 2018, Kicked out of House Committee In January 2018, the MP alongside other four legislators was kicked as chairs of various parliamentary committees over difference with their party Jubilee. Keter was kicked out as the chairman of Labour Committee for defying his party on sharing of top parliamentary committee posts. It was, however, the ejection of Keter alongside his deputy Catherine Wambialianga (Bungoma County) that featured high drama, with the matter sharply dividing members of the Labour Committee. At one point the removal session’s temporary chairperson Fabian Muli (Kangundo) had to give the MPs a five-minute break, after tempers flared. Keter was even backed by opposition NASA MPs insisting that it should be done through secret ballot, while other members were for the idea that it should be done publicly. Keter's hopes to have the vote conducted through secret ballot were, however, dashed when members voted by acclamation. It is believed that the MP had hoped to get the support of Opposition legislators to retain his position. ALSO READ:

State bans logging, MPs laud move Although NASA, on the eve of the election, directed its members not to attend the sitting, some Opposition MPs did. February 2018, Treasury Bills

On February 16 2018, the MP was again on the limelight over the CBK affair. The  legislator was handcuffed by plainclothes officers alongside two directors of Desai Industries Madat Chatur and Arthur Sakwa. Representatives from Central Bank confirmed that the trio tried to present forged bills to CBK director Patrick Njoroge. The MP has since then denied forging the Treasury bills.