They say the quality of education is as good as those who teach. Teachers take part in curriculum development and implement it by translating the substance of education- the content and its delivery- at the school level. Reports of mass failure in teachers’ training colleges are alarming. When half the number (6,000) of trainees fail their exams, that should send the alarm bells ringing. Because if those trainee teachers fail the simplest of the Kenya National Examination Council exams, how then will they transfer knowledge to young learners? ALSO READ:

Education CS orders varsity staff head count There used to be a time when teaching was a glamorous, selfless profession; those who taught it, did it with unmatched passion and energy. One hardly comes across such teachers anymore. Times have changed, yes, but a lot of those who teach, teach for lack of a job. But even if that were the case, over time and out of routine even the slow converts fall into rhythm. Mass failure in college exams only means that the students were inadequately prepared and the few who passed could have done so out of flukes. Is the education and training given to prospective teachers as rigorous as that given to lawyers, doctors, engineers and other professionals? It could as well be that the exams in question could have tested what the trainees were not trained on.  Or that the marking was rigorous.  But then a clear pattern has emerged over time. Picture these: school assessment reports released by KNEC and reports by Uwezo, a non-governmental organisation have repeatedly questioned the performance of pupils where in worst case scenarios, Standard Six pupils couldn’t solve Standard Three arithmetic, or read Standard Two literature. What that tells us is that quantity never translates to quality and that unless the system is fixed, our pupils will continue to underperform and underachieve. In fact, the Sustainable Development Goal Number 4 goes beyond access and focusses on learning. If the learning is mediocre then the system will start rotting from within, propagating a never-ending cycle of mediocrity. Pupils ought to have a quality learning experience beyond simply “warming desks” and massaging the egos of government officials keen to demonstrate that they have achieved a high access and retention rates. A lot of the students were found to lack in basic learning skills and often times engaged in rote learning to pass exams rather than understanding the concepts. ALSO READ:

Exclusive: Scandal of teachers’ mass failure To guarantee that reforms in the education sector are effected and take root, the government must first consider the way it prepares teachers and put teacher excellence at the centre of curriculum reforms. Those involved in knowledge transfer must be well drilled. Evidently, it has put a lot of energy, time and skill in developing curriculum but little has been done to bring the trainers up to speed with new learning methodologies especially in the advent of technology and other societal change. Learning is no longer exclusively a classroom affair. It goes on beyond the classroom walls. One way of enforcing quality assurance is to ensure that the trainers of trainers are adequately versed with the subject matter. This will answer the question whether the students are victims of the wrong philosophy underlying teacher education and training. A curriculum, however strong or farsighted, is nothing without competent teachers. Teacher preparation is a critical component of learning. If the teachers’ knowledge is limited, the learners’ knowledge will also be limited. Additionally, authorities should go further and look at those completing high school education to ensure that they have the foundational knowledge and skills needed for higher education and training should they opt to teach. ALSO READ:

Girl hawking Sukuma Wiki to raise school fees