Economic Freedom Party (EFP) welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nomination of Hassan Noor Hassan as Sports Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) terming it long overdue. The Jubilee affiliated party had threatened to cut ties with the coalition if not given a cabinet slot by the President. ALSO READ:

Jubilee affiliate party tells off Mandera Governor over appointment Hassan had run for Mandera Governorship last year on an EFP ticket but failed to capture the seat. EFP chairman Isaak Hassan Abey said that they had appealed to the president and were now satisfied with his decision. “I had recently appealed to the president directly and the appointment now enhances our cordial relationships with Jubilee as one of its affiliate parties,” he said. Abey said that they were expecting even more prominent slots in government in future as their ties strengthened. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He was flanked by religious leaders, politicians and elders drawn from Mandera County They called on the northeastern communities to now support the government in “all manners.” Mandera West MP Adan Haji hailed the appointment saying that as a community they had “built the president” after campaigning for him in the region last year. “We are very happy, the decision was long overdue,” he said. ALSO READ:

ICC assigns judges to Uhuru, Ruto cases Supreme Council of Muslim (Supkem) Secretary General Mohamed Mahaat thanked the president for continuing to appoint muslims to his government. EFP Secretary General Abdullahi Abdinoor Gessey said that the government was now getting more inclusive as Uhuru wanted to “secure a good legacy.” “We joined Jubillee to for Uhuru’s re-election and today we are happy to be rewarded for our conscious support to the president and his deputy,” he said. The leaders also welcomed the newfound love between Uhuru and Raila saying they supported peace across the country. Last week EFP, which dominates Mandera politicis, protested to Jubilee  on filling of various Parliamentary leadership positions and East Africa Legislative Assembly (EALA), saying they had a majority number of MPs and MCAs in the county. EFP has five MPs in Mandera. ALSO READ:

Facebook suspends data firm linked to Uhuru-Ruto campaign