Mourners in a rural French town rocked by a deadly Islamist attack will hold a mass on Sunday to pay tribute to the victims, including a policeman hailed a hero for offering himself in place of a hostage. Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame, 44, was shot and stabbed after taking the place of a woman whom Radouane Lakdim had been using as a human shield during his attack Friday on a supermarket in the small town of Trebes. A national tribute will be held at a later date for Beltrane, who President Emmanuel Macron said had "died a hero" and deserved "the respect and admiration of the whole nation". Following the worst jihadist attack of his presidency, Macron has called a meeting later this week of the security services responsible for monitoring individuals suspected of radicalisation. Meanwhile, a mass will be held at 10:30 am (0830 GMT) Sunday in Trebes, where Lakdim carried out his final attack on a supermarket. The bishop of Carcassonne and Narbonne will celebrate mass in the Church of Saint-Etienne to honour the four killed and three wounded in the attacks claimed by the Islamic State group. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Lakdim, 25, had been placed on a watchlist, but ultimately authorities concluded the Moroccan-born French national did not pose a threat. 'Horrible attack' Investigators found notes at Lakdim's home in the nearby town of Carcassonne which referred to IS, a legal source said, including a hand-written letter in which he claimed allegiance to the jihadist group. His girlfriend and a 17-year-old friend were being held in custody as investigators sought to understand events leading up to the attacks. Lakdim, who was armed with a gun, knife and homemade explosive devices according to a security source, was shot dead as police moved in to end the siege of the Super U supermarket where he had holed up after a shooting spree in nearby Carcassonne.