Report by the Children’s department has revealed that 18 young girls of Musoma Primary School are pregnant. The girls in the age of between 12-15 years according to the shocking report were impregnated between November 2017 and January this year. Musoma is in Rukala Island in Budalang’i constituency. The report further revealed wide speared teen pregnancies in Budalang’i. County Director of Children Services Esther Wasige disclosed that no arrests had been made five months down line. The victims and their parents are not willing to give information about the perpetrators. “We have been in Musoma trying to find out who the culprits are but parents have remained evasive as no one is ready to talk but we independently got some information,” said Wasige. Ms Wasige said the culprits are fishermen from Uganda fishing in Lake Victoria. Some of the victims have since dropped out of school. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Musoma is one of the areas in Budalang’i that suffers most whenever there are floods in the flood-prone constituency and lies on the border of Kenya and Uganda. Fish for sex is highly practised at the Rukala isand due to poverty. Wasige’s team has commenced fact finding mission to establish the whereabouts of the impregnated girls and their HIV status and whether or not they are getting necessary services like health. “Advisory committee has started the process of arresting the culprits and prosecute them for impregnating minors and secure the welfare of the newborns,” said Wasige. The Advisory Committee found out that defilement was still on the rise in Budalang’i. This was attributed to rampant night vigils and poor parenting. The report painted Bunyala South and Bunyala West wards in Khajula location in Budalang’I where child abuse is rife. Bumala and Bujumba were identified as locations in Butula constituency as areas with high HIV/Aids infection. Child abuse in two locations is also on the rise. “ Quick action is needed in the two locations due to high rate of HIV/Aids pandemic in youths and high level of prostitution at Bumala town,” read the report. Samia Sub County has a large number of Orphans and Vulnerable Children. This according to the report is due to high rate of HIV/Aids pandemic particularly in Bwiri ward. Child labour is also high due to poverty and limited food in the household leading Children to engage in Child labour so as to earn a living. The children’s department is currently identifying the hot spots on child abuse per the Sub Counties to enable them come up with strategies to minimize Child Abuse in the county. Efforts to reach the school head teacher for comment were futile as calls went unanswered neither were short tests replied.