Nairobi Governor has been criticised for his management of the city’s waste. Environment Cabinet secretary Keriako Tobiko challenged Governor Mike Sonko to 'wake up', saying the city risked losing its reputation because of uncollected garbage. ALSO READ:

Lovers trapped in Ruai collapsed lodging “It would be shameful for the capital city to be known for plastic bottles and uncollected garbage “I challenge Governor Sonko and the entire leadership of the county to wake up. The pledges they made while seeking office included ensuring that Nairobi City is once again the green city in the sun. This includes ensuring that solid waste is a thing of the past.” Tobiko said he would soon lead a massive clean-up exercise to 'rid our capital of this mess'. He added that other cities such as Mombasa and Kisumu would also be cleaned up. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Tobiko was speaking at a ceremony marking the International Day of Forests held at Karura Forest, Nairobi, where it was announced that more than 20 million trees would be planted in three years. The country is aiming at having a 10 per cent forest cover by 2022. Three million trees At least 250 million trees would have been planted by then, Tobiko said. ALSO READ:

Several trapped as building collapses in Ruai The CS also welcomed plans by the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) to plant more than three million trees at Kibiku and Ololua forests. Under the Environmental Soldier Programme, KDF has been involved in environmental conservation efforts in various parts of the country. It has pledged to plant and nurture two million indigenous trees at Kibiku Forest and another one million indigenous trees at Ololua Forest. “The role of the military is not just protecting our country from external aggression. The military also realises it has a responsibility to also protect and nurture our forests,” the Tobiko said. He announced that rogue forest officers would be sacked. “There are some rotten apples in the service,” he said. The CS added that the National Tree Planting Day would be marked on April 26. ALSO READ:

Kibos Sugar put on notice over river pollution Representing the county was agriculture county executive Wachira Njuguna, who said Nairobi City County was targeting to have a forest cover of six per cent in the next five years. He said the county government had allocated Sh50 million annually to achieve its target. “The county’s integration plan allocated a budget of Sh50 million every year until we achieve a six per cent forest cover,” he said. He said that Nairobi’s forest cover currently stands at three per cent, adding that the city needed to be 'cooled down' because it had heated up because of low forest cover.