Cities and towns are made up of a wide range of complex socio-technical systems. This may include complicated infrastructure such as road or train transport, waste management systems, modern housing, just to mention but a few. These elements are key in achieving great performance, boosting the attractiveness and quality of life of an urban area. It goes without saying that urban areas are centers of individual growth and all manner of opportunities, including employment. But if not planned, urban areas can lead to other adverse effects to residents and those in the outskirts. Growth of slums is one of the common problems that always emerges when urban centres are not well planned. Solid waste management If unaddressed, the consequences of mushrooming of slums are severe not just on the environment, but also on social amenities and the economy of the area. Over the years, we have witnessed unplanned developments emerge in urban areas. This has always led to a major strain on existing infrastructure facilities and services, among others. The consequences can be much serious such as; intermittent water supply, pressure on existing sewerage and sanitation systems, traffic congestion, pollution, disorder, lack/inadequate public social amenities, incompatible and mixed land use, uncontrolled land values. Among other challenges that come up as a result of poor or lack of planning in urban areas is uncontrolled land subdivisions. This always leads to a situation where by you have some pieces of land, which can neither be developed nor even be accessed for any meaningful activity. Such pieces of land, for instance, remain dark alleys, inform of roads, which can’t help much in times of calamities when big vehicles have to use them. Poor planning also leads to proliferation of squatters, substandard living conditions, poor liquid and solid waste management, environmental degradation, crimes, diseases, scarcity of services and all manner of health hazards. Lack of urban managers or planners is a common problem in Kenya. Planning of cities and towns is a culture we need to inculcate among Kenyan developers. This will inevitably make our urban areas more attractive to live and work in and even attract investors. Policy makers Without functional urban centres, where structures are well managed for the sake of order, the current shambolic urbanisation could be catastrophic. Sustainable development in 21st century can only be realised by introducing innovations in both management and operations of urban infrastructures systems. Developing management practices that effectively integrates the processes of urban planning with urban infrastructures planning and management is a challenging goal that many cities and urban centers in Kenya are struggling with nowadays. This, however, is something we must strive to achieve for it will help to transform our towns into sustainable and resilient engines of growth. Solutions to urban issues is not all about firefighting, ad hoc and reactive measures in desperation to attain sustainable urban development. This requires proper planning and management of our urban systems, which is not prophecy but a reality. This can only be achieved at the infant stages if all policy makers engage urban managers in their decision making, planning, operations and maintenance. Urban managers understand the components of urban fabric as not merely a set of roads, buildings, parks etc but its functionality in providing inhabitants a livable environment. Urban management is moving towards a controlled development, which is necessary in managing the element of urbanisation and its related issues. It, therefore, becomes a valuable force in achieving sustainable development as it aims at creating order, safety, aesthetics, convenience and accessibility. This gives the urban dwellers and investors a clear picture of a well-planned, managed and livable town boosting their confidence in thriving in such environments. Urban managers will tend to focus on five key dimensions of technical, environmental, social, economic and jurisdictional dimension which has an element of political and legal aspect in managing their urban systems. For cities to thrive well, urban managers emphasise on the need for an element of meaningful consultation and public participation, good political goodwill and governance, social inclusion to address increasing urban poverty. Another thing is by encouraging and recognising role of the informal sector through formulation of policies that support it, addressing land tenure issues, provision of efficient and effective urban infrastructure and social services with equitable distribution, to realise local economic development. Therefore, all urban centers in Kenya require urban managers to address the key urban challenges some of which have been prioritised by the National Government in the Big Four that is housing, food, health and manufacturing. Mr Abuya is an Urban Management Student; Department of Architecture and Building Science, University of Nairobi.