 Doting owners are using a smartphone app to track their dog’s every move – even how many times it goes to the loo. New pet services app Dogiz was created by Danny Djanogly after he worried about his own dog Mufassa, a German Shepherd Akita cross, being left home alone. It links owners with local dog walkers, sitters, daycare and boarding centres, groomers and behaviourists. Danny, 27, who lives in North London, explained: “I used dog walkers and sitters myself as I’m at work all day but on a few occasions I was let down and felt frantic with worry. “I knew friends had similar experiences and needed to use professional carers for their pets who could be relied upon.” Danny and two former uni pals now in the tech industry decided to take action and designed the Dogiz app. Owners can book a walk, groom or boarding and pay through the app. They get a notification as their dog is picked up and dropped off – along with photos too. They can even follow walkies as each pet is tracked via GPS. And at the end of the outing, they get a summary of where the dog has been, how it behaved and, yes, even how many poos it had. Danny said: “It can sound strange to people who don’t have dogs but this really is the level of detail people want to know. “Booking a dog walk isn’t like booking a taxi. We humanise our pets and the bond we share with them is so great. “Owners’ dogs are like their children. Many are young couples and professionals aged 25-45, working long hours and living in cities and they want to know their pet is happy and safe.” Radiographer Lauren Marinho, 28, from North West London, uses the app to book aptly-named Nick Petrow to take her 16-month-old shih-poo Monty – a shih tzu/poodle cross – for walkies. Lauren said: “I’m notified as soon as Nick picks him up and get photos of Monty when he’s playing with other dogs. “I know if he’s had a treat or been to the loo, if he’s needed to wear his coat or had his paws cleaned if it’s been muddy. “Like all owners, I’d love to be with Monty all the time, so the most important thing is I know he’s well cared for.”