A cross section of legislators have reiterated their support for Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential run in 2022. The MPs, majorly from Jubilee, said the coming together of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga strengthened Ruto as a candidate in 2022. ALSO READ:

Aisha Jumwa endorses Ruto's 2022 presidential bid The lawmakers spoke when they accompanied Ruto in his backyard at Turbo Constituency, Uasin Gishu County during the opening of a block at St Joseph’s Anglican Church of Kenya in Kipkaren, also attended by Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit. Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut observed that Ruto has tirelessly worked to unite the country and the attribute qualifies him to be a national leader. “Uhuru and Raila have agreed to work together and Ruto has strongly supported this because his first agenda has been to unite the country. The only way to reciprocate his commitment is to unanimously vote for him in 2022,” said the MP elected on an Independent ticket. Malava MP Malulu Injendi, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri and their Mugirango South counterpart Silvanus Osoro of Kenya National Congress also assured Ruto of support. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Ruto called for solid and sustainable partnership between the church and the State. “We are determined to work with religious leaders to first eradicate tribalism and unnecessary divisions among all citizens which has been a hitch to development. It is our responsibility to make all Kenyans feel home in this country and build bridges that will spur us to the next stage of growth,” Ruto said. Archbishop Sapit said their criticism of the government was for the good of the country. He called on the church to take the lead in convening and sustaining national development discussions. The prelate said the church has an obligation to transform livelihoods by  addressing socio-economic empowerment, access to better health, environment conservation. ALSO READ:

Why PM post is on everyone’s lips