A Sh6 billion irrigation project is wasting away in Homa Bay County at a time Kenya is suffering food deficit due to low agricultural production. The Oluch Kimira Small Holder Farm Irrigation Project was to turn Karachuonyo and Rangwe sub-counties, often hit by adverse dry weather conditions, into the region’s bread basket. ALSO READ:

Local MCAs caution on Mwea land subdivision Under the project funded jointly by the government and the African Development Bank, irrigation tunnels have been constructed in the two sub-counties, passing through hundreds of small holder farms and drawing water from Kibwon and Oluch rivers. Potential to produce A feasibility study conducted by the Lake Basin Development Authority that anchored the project more than 10 years ago, shows the area has potential to produce hundreds of tonnes of maize, rice, vegetables and other horticultural crops. But a spot check shows the project is immensely under-utilised, and only a handful of farmers use the waters to irrigate their farms while the rest use it for domestic purposes. John Onyango from Kowili village is grateful for the project because he no longer has to walk long distances in search of water for his livestock. “The water enables our livestock access water more easily, and not have to trek to Lake Victoria,” Onyango says. John Odongo says most of the water meant for irrigating farms is being used for domestic purposes. “We used to draw water from Nyamor beach in Lake Victoria. This project has enhanced availability of water, which our families use for cooking, washing and bathing,” says Odongo. ALSO READ:

Sexual violence in Rachuonyo persists despite milestones Prosperous farmers in the area are few, an indication that there is little crop production going on. It is clear farmers still depend on rain-fed agriculture, in spite of getting irrigation water. Most farmers however shift the blame to Ministry of Agriculture for failing to deploy extension officers to the two sub-counties to sensitise them on how to use the water. “We need extension officers to educate our people on how to use the water. The problem here is ignorance,” says Jacob Ouma, who farms vegetables. There is concern among leaders from the area that many people who have irrigation water on their land do not utilise it for crop production. Karachuonyo MP Adipo Okuome notes that a number of residents use the irrigation water for wrong purposes. He says the aim of the project is to enhance crop propagation and told residents to change their attitude. “God has blessed us with an irrigation project we have always yearned for. It is unfortunate that many people are using the water for unintended purposes,” says Okuome. ALSO READ:

Class three boy killed, dumped in ditch He adds: “Let our people stop saying that they are not growing crops because the project is incomplete. The meaning of the project is water supply, hence anybody who has water flowing on their land should grow crops,” says Okuome. A handful of farmers have however embraced the project, and grow watermelon, bananas, potatoes, kales, rice, arrow roots and pumpkins. “This project helps me produce crops for commercial purposes. It can make a serious farmer rich. I use a generator in pumping water from canals into my farm,” says James Ochoo. Crop production Charles Onyango, who farms tomatoes says: “You are able to see just a handful of people practising crop production here during drought because the majority fear hard work.” According to the project’s manager Nelson Korir, the project is 90 per cent complete and water is flowing in all canals established in 97 irrigable blocks. Korir says the blocks make up 1474 hectares of land where the water is flowing. “What is remaining is minor work of dividing water to individual farmer groups,” says Korir. ALSO READ:

Five MCAs receive death threats He says locals not using the water for crop production are to blame. “We have trained farmers and availed water to almost all of them. They should use the water effectively to achieve the purpose of the project,” says Korir. He says further distribution of water into farmer groups is 75 per cent complete and that the remaining 25 per cent will not make any significant change. The manager, just like other leaders, emphasises that the project’s impact should be seen through proper crop production in the area. “I have also heard complaints about misuse of water meant for irrigation, but my appeal is that residents change their attitude,” says Korir.