Victims of the violence that followed last year's elections have demanded compensation before President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga embark on peace campaigns around the country. Those who spoke to The Standard said it would be wrong for the two leaders to concentrate on the deal between them and forget those who suffered because of their differences. ALSO READ:

MPs: Compensate patients in KNH surgery mix-up They want the Government to heed Siaya Senator James Orengo's call on Saturday that those who suffered in any way be compensated before the peace deal was implemented. "Justice for victims of the violence should be part of the agenda. This will help reconcile the country," said Lenser Achieng, the mother of six-month-old Baby Samantha Pendo, who died allegedly after being hit on the head by anti-riot police officers. Related cases Orengo said peace meetings should not start until the victims of violence were compensated. He also said politics-related cases against MPs and activists should be terminated. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 "Raila has shown his commitment. President Kenyatta must do the same to ensure violence victims are not left behind. The Government must compensate families affected by violence before we proceed,” said Orengo. Calls for compensation of violence victims are likely to be a major issue when President Kenyatta and Raila visit Nyanza early next month. Analysts have warned that although necessary, compensating the victims could be expensive given that a record was not kept. Kisumu was a violence hot spot. At least 10 people were killed and more than 120 injured during and after the August 8 General Election. ALSO READ:

Joho: Pay families for deaths Kisumu City Residents Voice Association said 73 people were injured during demonstrations to kick out former electoral commission boss Isaack Hassan in 2016. "This was not all. Another four people were killed and nine injured during Raila's swearing-in at Uhuru Park, according to our records," said Ogada. An inquest was opened into the killing of Baby Pendo after police investigations failed to net her killers at Nyalenda slums on August 11. David Otieno, a resident of Nyalenda, is still nursing injuries after he was allegedly shot by policemen who stormed his house. "As dialogue begins, let them also address our plight. I can't get proper treatment and I am unable to fend for my family because of the attack," said the 35-year-old boda boda rider. Issa Saidi, a Second Year student at Kisumu National Polytechnic, is also nursing injuries after he was shot in the chest. The 27-year-old engineering student was shot as he returned home from college. "I worked to raise school fees. I can't do that now because of the pain. I deserve compensation." ALSO READ:

Raila reveals secrets of how deal was crafted Risks paralysis Chrispine Ochieng, 19, a Form Four student at Nanga Secondary, was allegedly shot by the police in protests on October 26. He still has a bullet lodged in the pelvic area and risks paralysis. His father, Marcus Onyango, said: "As the leaders embark on reconciliation, they must also realise people suffered. We need justice."