Only eight months in office, the Kiambu governor is walking a tight rope over his stand on the fight against illicit liquor. The ongoing crackdown against the drinks in the county, spearheaded by Governor Ferdinand Waititu, has seen bar owners and operators vow to wage 'total war' against the county chief. ALSO READ:

Bar owners protest over war against illicit liquor The crackdown has exposed the bad blood between the governor and bar owners and operators. The bar owners and operators have maintained that they are in legitimate business and are not part of the illicit liquor cartels. The threat to have Waititu impeachment surfaced a fortnight ago when bar owners and operators held a demonstration under their umbrella Kiambu Bar Liquor Association. The traders, who stormed the governor’s office in Kiambu town, accused him of victimising them even though their business was legal. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The Kiambu Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KNCI) chairman, Thinguri Warwathe, set the ball rolling when he said the business community would initiate a process to impeach the governor if he continued to be unfriendly to them. Unfriendly to business Warwathe, who had accompanied the beer traders from the county’s 12 sub counties in their protest, accused Waititu of coming up with polices that were unfriendly to business. He said they would initiate proceedings to kick out the governor over the ongoing crackdown on illegal drinks, adding that the law on alcohol recently passed by the county assembly was 'killing' innocent and legitimate businesses. ALSO READ:

Waititu hires Mututho in war against illicit brew “If the governor continues victimising innocent bar owners who are in legitimate business, we as the business community will initiate the process to get one million signatures from locals to send him home. We are giving him 14 days to stop harassing innocent traders or he should prepare to go home,” said Dr Warwathe. He said KNCI and the business community would not seat back and watch as innocent bar operators were targeted in the crackdown. Bar owners have also threatened to institute legal action against Waititu. "We are moving to court after the Easter holiday to seek suspension of the implementation of the new law which is punitive and anti-business," said Joseph Kariuki, a representative of bar owners in Ruiru constituency. However, the threats seems to have strengthened Waititu's resolve. "There is no turning back in the fight against illicit brews and second-generation alcohol in Kiambu. The fight is meant to safeguard future generations," he said yesterday.