 Residents of Greenpark estate off Mombasa Road in Athi River want a Chinese construction company putting up a bridge across Stoni Athi River to examine the possibility that its works might have contributed to the flooding that submerged ten houses in the middle-class neighbourhood. ALSO READ:

Sonko blames Kidero for floods A resident, Ms Rita Oyier speaking on behalf of affected home owners and tenants, told Standard Digital that it was possible that an attempt by the firm to widen the river’s channel during Thursday’s heavy downpour might have released the deluge that washed away a perimeter fence and flooded a row of houses, whose value residents estimated to be over Sh250 million. The houses are, however, visibly intact meaning the residents mainly lost household items. “Our focus is more on the impact of the road construction than individual loses,” she said. On Friday, the estate’s developer, Superior Homes Ltd, dispatched its workers, dumper trucks and water bowsers to clean the houses and muddy streets. The affected residents were accommodated by their neighbours while others took rooms at the estate’s Sundowner hotel. A resident, who works with the United Nations but was not willing to be quoted, said by 8 am he had sensed the river would break its banks because it was higher than normal. “By 2am, water had seeped to the houses, preparing us for the big shock when it washed away the perimeter fence at around 5am,” he said. A statement released after Superior Homes’ board met said the firm was “working with the Estate Manager and residents to assess the full impact of the floods with a view to restoring normalcy to the affected area as soon as possible.” ALSO READ:

Closed road near Athi River to be opened Friday The developer talked of a four-pronged response that will entail ensuring safety and comfort of all residents, assessing structural damage and making repairs and engaging engineers to see what design changes are needed and adapt mechanism to mitigate future recurrence. The developer has completed the first four phases of the project Sh8 bn project. Four bed-room bungalows there sell at the neighbourhood of Sh20m, up from Sh3.9m in 2007 while a super bungalow fetches Sh23m with a 4-bedroom villa going for Sh35m. Sh13.6 buys a semi-detached maisonett for the less deep-pocketed. 