Kenya and Tanzania surveyors have embarked on a joint exercise to trace the colonial pillars erected on their boundaries by the colonies and demarcate them afresh. The purpose of the exercise is to ensure the boundaries between the two countries is visibly marked on the ground by erecting new pillars, where old ones have decayed. ALSO READ:

US firm behind Uhuru, Raila videos According to the Head of Kenya International Boundaries (KIBO), Director, Mr. Julius Rotich, they are currently at Muhuru bay on the border to retrace the old pillars. Rotich explained the monuments or the boundary pillars will be constructed at the boundary lines, marking the limits of the territory. These pillars are constructed by use of iron bars, chains, cement, sand, and concrete. The exercise will be overseen by KIBO under the Office of the President of Kenya and Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development of Tanzania is also coordinating surveyors from Tanzania. Rotich said the exercise will take place from March to September this year and that both Tanzania and Kenyan authorities were cooperating well to undertake the work Kenya and Tanzania share a common boundary that stretches from Lake Victoria to the Indian Ocean covering a distance of approximately 760 Kilometers. The current exercise covers the first phase representing sectors one and two- a distance of about 238 Kilometers from Lake Victoria to Lake Natron. ALSO READ:

Mysterious death of foreigner haunts Kenya's election ''The outcome of the reaffirmation exercise will be- a clear boundary line, a Vista (Clear zone to enable boundary visibility) and Boundary treaty,’’ said Rotich The surveyors said doing this will mark the limit of territory of the two States and also determine the extent of sovereignty and jurisdiction of the States. It will also ensure effective border management and protection of the national interest of a State so that the two sides do not go into a clash over alleged territorial trespass. But he was quick to clarify that what they are doing is not fresh demarcation or delineation of the international boundaries. ''We are only tracing the pillars which were erected by the colonies some of which have either been destroyed, decayed or pulled down by border residents,’’ Rotich explained. The exercise does not entail a redrawing of the Kenyan or Tanzania boundary. ''It is merely reaffirming an existing international boundary,’’Rotich asserted. The KIBO boss said they will re-establish, destroyed boundary pillars, construct pillars where none exist and draft a comprehensive agreement on the boundary. ALSO READ:

Big shame for Harambee Stars to play Ghana in Uganda The new agreements is expected to replace the colonial pacts that were now outdated. The teams also update new physical features of land at the two borders. The exercise is done after every ten years. Nyatike MP Tom Odege lauded the process as good. But he asked the officers to ensure that draft and table a comprehensive agreement on the management of the borders. ''We don't want to hear recurring cases of territorial trespass or alleged harassment of Kenyans by Tanzania authorities,'' the lawmaker said. The relationship between the two countries has been cordial. Kenya and Tanzania traders have enjoyed unfettered access to trade at the border with little hiccups over the years.