Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) have passed a motion to compel Governor Wilber Ottichilo to sack his chief of staff. The motion threatened to split the county assembly in the middle. A report tabled before the MCAs states that Chief of Staff Noah Okaya has usurped powers of legal officers and his continued in office will hinder public service delivery. While a majority the MCAs supported the report of a committee that investigated the conduct of Mr Okaya, others opposed it. They argued that the assembly did not have mandate to compel the governor to sack his appointees. “The officer wasn’t given a fair hearing. In the last assembly, we fired three county executive committee members and were forced to pay them a whopping Sh21 million. We also denied another person a chance to serve the county and we paid dearly for this,” argued Jepkoyai MCA Zachariah Murefu. He added: “I urge the members to be sober while approving these recommendations. As an assembly, we should follow the rule of law and not just come up with conclusions.” Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Another MCA, Sally Enona, argued that the report was a witch hunt. However, the majority carried the day with MCAs shouting down any member who stood up to oppose the report recommending Okaya’s sacking. Nominated MCA Jackline Mwenesi, said the leaders wanted to allow the governor to perform his duties without hindrances. Nominated MCA Vennah Kaisha, said the implementation of the report would determine the assembly’s working relationship with the governor in future. “In public interest, the governor should, therefore, relieve the said officer the duties of chief of staff and any other duties in the county service,” Wodanga MCA Vincent Atsiaya, who chaired the seven-member-committee said. The recommendations further noted that documents received from the executive and contained in Okaya’s personal file indicated he is not suitable to hold public office. The MCAs argued that the governor’s office did not adhere to resolutions of the county assembly On March 7, to have Okaya suspended from office to facilitate investigations. Reacting to the MCAs motion, Okaya said he was an employee of the governor and not the assembly.