Kenyan football fans are in for more disappointment. Reports have emerged that they could be forced to watch upcoming Harambee Stars 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Ghana, in Uganda for lack of a ready stadium. How unfortunate for long-suffering lovers of the beautiful game! When Kenya lost the rights to host this year’s Africa Nations Championships (CHAN) tournament, local fans were heart-broken. They were, however, encouraged when the government committed to complete construction of all stadiums earmarked for the continental tourney. ALSO READ:

Late Oloo ‘Breakdance’ kin seek justice But hardly six months later, the four stadia are not ready. Majority of Kenyans are looking forward to watch the Black Stars take on Harambee Stars on home soil. National pride and Kenya’s reputation as a sporting nation will be on the line, should the match be played on our neighbour’s grounds, simply because we do not have a suitable venue. Uganda have been our archrivals in football and the thought of them hosting Harambee Stars as guest would be unacceptable. Such a move would deny Harambee Stars the much needed support as they seek to qualify for the African tournament that has eluded us for years, not for lack of talent but poor management of the game. Besides the revenue to be lost, the Harambee Stars would be denied home ground advantage against one of the best footballing nations in Africa. The Ministry of Sports and the National Treasury should do everything possible to ensure the stadia are completed on time to enable Harambee Stars play their matches at home. It is disheartening that although the government had set aside Sh5.6 billion for completion of the pending works, some contractors are still owed money. Indeed, following closure of the five stadiums, Kenyan Premier League (KPL) teams have been forced to push their matches to Machakos Stadium, which is now overused and cannot host more fixtures. This sad state of affairs is what has denied football enough resources because sponsors are not willing to put their money into poorly managed ventures. But for now, Kenyans deserve to watch their Harambee Stars take on Ghana in Kenya! Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840