A play written by Senator Cleophas Malala was declared the best during the Western Region Drama Festival. Butere Girls High School has emerged the overall winner of Western Region Drama Festival with their play, "It Is Well", written by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala. Kakamega High School’s 'The Burdens' came second while Eregi Girls High School's 'Mirage at Dusk' was third at the event that ended on Monday evening. 'It Is Well', directed by Caroline Okumu, is set in Soweto, a South African slum, and is about police officers serving mainly the ruling elite and who degrade and shoot civilians at will, forgetting they may be of help in some way. The play brings to the fore the animosity between police and civilians, especially during the Kenyan electioneering period when demonstrators were shot and tear-gassed. ‘The Eagles’, as identified in the play, have become a force that does not interact with civilians. But after a tragedy in which only the people in the ghetto could help, they see the need for everyone to be the other’s keeper. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The play emphasises that firearms should be used to protect civilians, not harm them. “No parents should be left to bury their children because of police brutality,” says Rodah, the main actor. Chavakali High School’s 'Petra' took first position among Kiswahili plays while Lugulu Girls High School’s 'Kisima cha Delila' was second. Moses Wendo of Kakamega High School emerged the best actor while Rodah from Butere was declared the best actress. Schools from Vihiga County dominated the Modern Dance category, with Lusengeli Secondary taking first place followed by Kaimosi Girls and Tigoi Girls. Samuel Ateku of Nyang’ori Boys was the best solo performer followed by Erusui Girls’ Celestine Ahugawa. Bungoma High School took first position in the Cultural Dance category, ahead of Friends School Bukembe and St Philips Sonya Girls. In the Narrative category, Koyonzo Boys took first place followed by Kamusinga and Vokoli Girls. Lirhanda Girls won the Choral Verse category as Busali Union came second and Bungoma Boys third.