A man sexually assaulted his daughter after he demanded to establish whether she was still a virgin, the court heard yesterday. Jeremiah Kwanda Ombwala is alleged to have defiled his daughter on September 16, 2016 at their Shirere village, Lurambi sub-county. ALSO READ:

Porn actress openly reveals details on Trump affair He is faced with an alternative charge of committing unlawful indecent acts with the minor who at the time of the offence was 15 years old. The 2001 born girl told the court that her father came home and asked the girl to give him water which she did and proceeded to her bedroom. His father allegedly followed her into her room, sat on her bed and demanded to see her genitalia to establish whether she was still a virgin. “He inserted his fingers in my genitalia before he undressed and committed the heinous act. I screamed but stopped when he warned of harming me,” the girl told Kakamega Resident Magistrate Josephine Maragia Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The frustrated girl told her step mother of the incident who said she would follow up the matter but never did so. She went back to her high school but the principal gave her permission to go home when she complained of abdominal pains and headache, a week later. “The principal called my uncle telling him to come pick me and take me to hospital since I was unwell. I was treated at Kakamega County Referral Hospital and discharged,” she added in her sworn evidence. The girl who was in Form One then told the court that she terminated he studies before moving out of their home to live with his uncle. ALSO READ:

Kakamega High retain rugby title: Western Region MGK triumph as Mukumu, Misikhu crash out When called to testify, the uncle told the court that he decided to live with the minor after she felt traumatized after the incident. The case was adjourned to April 13 when the doctor who examined the girl will testify.