The outspoken Kenya Film Classification Board CEO, Dr Ezekiel Mutua has been feted as one of the most reputable Africans in a poll released by the Reputation Poll 2018. Also on the list of the Top 100 Reputable Africans is the President of the Supreme Court of Kenya and Chief Justice David Maraga as well as Hollywood Kenyan silver screen princess LupitaNyong’o. ALSO READ:

Huge field for youth show On the list are also three serving presidents, two former presidents, two vice presidents and other internationally renowned personalities in different fields of business, journalism, sports, media and the arts. “I am deeply humbled to feature in the Reputation Poll 2018 most reputable Africans. It's gratifying to note that our firm crusade in promoting cultural values, national aspirations and morality through content regulation is being acknowledged and appreciated locally, continentally and globally,” said DrMutua who just came back to the country after attending the 90th Oscars in Hollywood. He noted that their continued efforts at the Kenya Film Classification Board to ensure clean content in the film and broadcast sector are without a doubt the reason for this nomination. “It is gratifying to see that the global community acknowledges our little efforts for positive social change in Kenya, particularly the campaign on child-online safety in the wake of emerging technologies,” said the Board CEO who has been relentless in his fight to protect children from alcohol and tobacco adverts as well as from sexually explicit content on TV. For his distinguished recognition he has thanked his colleagues at KFCB, the government including the Ministry of Sports and Heritage and the people of Kenya. “Congratulations Mr. Ezekiel Mutua. Hard work pays and that which is good no matter what, will ultimately be noticed. Remember if you want to shine like the sun, you must be ready to burn like the sun,” said media guru KasujaOnyonyi, one of the many Kenyans who took to the social media to congratulate DrMutua. Also on the list from Kenya are Julie Gichuru, Dr. Josephine Ojiambo, Dr. Monica Makau, Dr. Patrick L.O Lumumba and Prof. Ruth Oniang’o, From the rest of Africa the list includes Rwanda President Paul Kagame, ArchBishop Desmond Tutu, Graca Marcel, Trevor Noah, Mo Ibrahim, Koffi Anan and Mensah Otabil. ALSO READ:

Douala Stadium artificial turf stolen ahead of 2019 AFCON tournament 