The brutality of the Kenya Police Service is, once again, at the fore after attacking journalists covering the airport chaos that marred lawyer Miguna’s return to Kenya. Plain clothe officers who were visibly unhappy with the media presence, clobbered and slapped TV crews and print journalists in the commotion. ALSO READ:

Legal hitch mars Miguna's return An ugly attack on the fourth estate that has drawn the ire and condemnation of Kenyans. KTN News Senior Reporter Sophia Wanuna was shoved and manhandled by one of the officers as she was live on air.  A situation that was replicated on Citizen TV’s Stephen Letoo who was roughed up, injured and needed medical attention. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Mr Letoo who has since been discharged from hospital has described the situation as uncalled for. Nation TV cameraman Robert Gichira was left bleeding and his broadcast equipment destroyed after an officer clubbed him several times as he ran from the scene. Authorities at JKIA say that they were under instruction not to let Miguna into the country without fulling immigration prerequisites applicable to a foreigner. Miguna who had arrived from Canada at 2:30pm refused to hand in his Canadian passport leading to a 10-hour standoff. ALSO READ:

Government issues statement on Miguna’s arrival It was until 11pm in the night when the battery of officers roughed up a crowd that had gathered in the area leading to the chaotic scene. They would later turn their wrath on Miguna who previously was giving interviews through a glass door. They whisked him away, declaring him an undocumented immigrant. The officer bundled him into an Emirates airline flight bound for Dubai apparently for deportation. A defiant and screaming Miguna held on to the aircraft’s door and refused to board. The aircraft pilot declared him a hostile passenger and was ejected from the aircraft. Miguna is reported to have spent the night at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport Police Station.