Migori Governor Okoth Obado is expected to face murder charges today in connection with the death of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. Mr Obado, who spent three nights at the Gigiri Police Station cells, is expected to take plea. ALSO READ:

Crucial leads that link Obado to Sharon’s murder Reports indicate that the prosecution intends to oppose his release on bail, citing risk of interference with witnesses. Yesterday, one of his lawyers, Cliff Ombeta, said his defence team was aware of "the scheme". “Bail is his (Obado's) constitutional right. We will fight for it. No one can take it away,” said Mr Ombeta. The lawyer said the governor was ready for the case. “We are ready to see what they bring. The governor is doing well and in good spirits,” he said. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Solitary confinement Reports indicate that Obado has been in solitary confinement after being isolated from other detainees. Police said this was for his own safety. His cell had a mattress and blanket brought in by his family. Police have also been instructed not to allow anyone to visit him except his immediate family and lawyers. ALSO READ:

Migori Governor Obado to be charged with murder Yesterday, the governor's wife, Hellen, and two children were allowed to see him in the presence of detectives. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) said it had evidence to link the governor to the abduction and subsequent murder of Sharon. The detectives have been investigating whether the governor could have been at the scene of the killing. “That will be answered in court when we start the case. Wait and see,” said an officer who asked not to be named. Obado has denied any involvement in the killing, saying, in his statement to the police, that he was away in Nairobi when it happened. Police said they were still looking for more suspects. Three different teams of detectives have been investigating the September 3 killing and have all come to the conclusion that the governor is a suspect. ALSO READ:

Sharon's mysterious trip to Tanzania before her murder Reports indicate that at least two other suspects have adversely mentioned Obado. An analysis of telephone communication is also said to have led to the governor's arrest last Friday shortly after he had recorded a statement at the DCI headquarters in Nairobi for the second time. Detectives said a car used in the abduction of Sharon from Rongo town belonged to one of Obado’s aides who is in custody. Taxi business Other reports indicate that on the day of the murder, the driver who had been using the car for taxi business in Migori, was ordered to switch off its tracking system. The system was switched on three days after the incident. The car, a Toyota Fielder, has been sent to DCI headquarters for forensic analysis. The driver told police that he was not privy to the murder plot. Another suspect, Caspal Obiero, who runs errands for the governor, presented himself to the police on Tuesday after the car he drives was linked to the killing. The governor’s other assistant, Michael Oyamo, has been in custody. ALSO READ:

Obado's bodyguard held as police close in on Sharon's killers Detectives have been trying to determine whether the governor's two aides and three other suspects in custody acted on their own or whether there were others involved. Reports indicate that police offered to prefer lesser charges against some suspects in return for information. Oyamo and former Kanyadoto MCA Lawrence Mula have already been charged with the murder. Among the options being considered is to charge suspects who have cooperated with the lesser offence of conspiracy to commit murder and turn them into State witnesses. 