A 42-year-old woman was on Tuesday charged with deliberately transmitting HIV to a nine-month-old infant. Susan Njeri was alleged to have breastfed the baby, a child belonging to her neighbour with the full knowledge of her HIV status, an act that allegedly caused the infant to contract the virus. ALSO READ:

How US gave African countries faulty HIV kits “On September 18 at Gichobo area in Njoro Sub-county having actual knowledge that you were infected with HIV, you intentionally breastfed the infant which you knew or ought to have known was likely to lead to the child being infected,” read Senior Principal Magistrate Joe Omido. Njeri pleaded not guilty to the charges. Sandra Kosgei, the prosecutor pleaded with the court to give the investigating officer more time to conclude the investigation as some medical tests were still underway. “The police statements reports are still sketchy and the prosecution requires more time to conclude its investigations,” said Kosgei. “The accused is hereby remanded pending the conclusion of the investigation. The bond terms will be revisited on October 2,” ruled magistrate Omido. The court directed that the accused be accorded with medication if need arises. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. On the day she committed the offence, the mother to the nine-month-old boy had left him under the care of the accused as she went to the posho Mill. Although Priscilla Ndung’u, the mother to the infant, was aware that the accused person was HIV positive, given that the two are said to be good friends and good neighbours, Ndung’u was comfortable to leave her baby in the custody of the accused. Neighbours, who witnessed the incident, immediately alerted the mother who was not around at that moment. ALSO READ:

Court declines to stop Sh1bilion fraud case against Cytonn directors Ndung’u rushed home, found the accused, and confronted her on the matter. She however denied the allegations. This prompted the mother to report the matter at Njoro Police Station when investigations commenced. The accused was arrested on September 24 at her home and held in police custody. The case will be mentioned on October 2 when the bond terms will be determined.