A man has been shot dead in a dispute over land at Irobo village. Fredrick Machanga, 36, was reportedly shot in the chest on Saturday evening after a quarrel on the ownership of a piece of land. The land was said to have been sold to two people. ALSO READ:

How Kiplagat played TJRC colleagues like a ping pong Ms Margaret Kaboche, an aunt of the victim, said the family heard the suspect and the victim quarrel outside the house at about 4pm. Ms Kaboche said the two were standing near the fence of the disputed plot. She said Mr Machanga had demanded to know why the suspect had planted maize on the land yet a case to determine the ownership of the property had yet to be concluded. “He (suspect) opened the bonnet of his car, took out a gun and shot Machanga in the chest. He then shot in the air twice before speeding off,” she said. Stephen Nasiali, Machanga’s uncle, said he was going back home after attending a funeral in the area when he heard gunshots. He found his nephew lying in a pool of blood. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “The land was sold to Machanga’s father in 1999 and before he died, he transferred it to his children. The land has been in the custody of the victim, who is the first born son,” said Mr Nasiali. In July this year, he said, they woke up one day to find the suspect fencing the land claiming he had bought it. “We went to court and the matter was to come up for hearing at the High Court in Kakamega on September 25.” Planted maize ALSO READ:

Bodies lie in morgues as families tussle for land Nasiali said last Friday, the suspect hired 30 people to plant maize and beans on the disputed land. “I advised Machanga to report the matter to the police instead of confronting them,” said Nasiali. He added: “We were advised to raise the matter in court when the case comes up for hearing and subsequently obtain a court order restraining the suspect from tilling the land. “Our son has died prematurely and we are asking the police to carry out thorough investigations and ensure the suspect is brought to book.” Isukha South MCA Farouk Machanje said: “No one has the right to take away the life of another person, no matter the dispute. Even if one is a licensed gun holder, he is not supposed to kill innocent people.” Mr Machanje urged the police to carry out thorough investigations and ensure justice was served. “We are also calling on the police to revoke the licence and take away the gun from the suspect. He has in the past threatened villagers with the gun. Time has come for the gun to be taken away,” said Machanje. Kakamega East DCI boss Paul Gathara said the suspect surrendered himself to the police after the incident. ALSO READ:

TJRC: How land's chapter was butchered Mr Gathara said the man handed over a Ceska pistol that was loaded with 10 bullets. He also surrendered one spent cartridge. “He was a licensed gun holder but that does not give him the right to kill innocent people. He will be arraigned on Monday (today). He is being detained at Kakamega Central Police Station,” said Gathara. 