 Police in Gilgil are investigating a case where the body of a middle-aged woman was found dumped along the Naivasha-Gilgil railway line. ALSO READ:

Governor Okoth Obado to spend two more nights in prison The body which has visible injuries on the head and neck was found a few kilometers from the town by members of the public who in turn informed the police. There were fears that the woman who was identified as Amina Jere could have been sexually abused before she was murdered. Area OCPD Emmanuel Opuru confirmed the incident adding that no arrest had been made though police were making headway into the murder. “The naked body was found dumped along the railway line and we have launched investigations following the incident,” he said. A child activist Sakina Mohammed expressed her concern over rising cases of murder targeting women in the town. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “Last week another woman was murdered near Highway Estate and the body doused with chemicals and we are asking police to arrest these killers,” she said. Meanwhile, police in Mai Mahiu have recovered over 200 bags of cement that were stolen from a vehicle en-route to Nakuru from Thika. A prominent businessman has also been arrested after the consignment was found in his warehouse in Mai Mahiu town while police are looking for the driver of the vehicle. ALSO READ:

Case against house-help accused of killing employer delays The driver allegedly sold the cargo to the trader before driving the lorry back and abandoning it by the roadside. According to Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru, the driver was ferrying 220 bags of cement all destined for a trader in Nakuru town. However on reaching Mai Mahiu, he diverted the cargo and sold it to the well trader in Mai Mahiu before proceeding back to the place of origin before fleeing. “We tracked the vehicle after the report was raised to us and that is how we found the cement in the warehouse where it was offloaded and we have launched investigations to nab the driver who sold the load to the businessman,” he said. The police boss called on employers to be keen on who they employed as drivers adding that investigations had established that the drivers were involved in the theft. “Our investigations have established that in nearly all the cases where cargo is stolen along the roads, the drivers are always involved,” he said. ALSO READ:

TV journalist's fiance arrested in connection to murder of woman