 The burial ceremony of the late Kofi Anan at the Accra International conference Centre started at 8:30am Ghanaian time. ALSO READ:

Raila in Ghana for Annan’s burial (Photos) The body of Kofi Anan, the former UN Secretary General, will be buried privately at Accra's new military cemetery. He died in Switzerland after a short illness. From Monday, dignitaries and members of the public were paying their last respect to the Nobel Peace Laureate. The death of Kofi Anan has seen world political figures jet into Ghana for the final burial ceremony. According to Ghana's information minister, the president of Ivory Coast and leaders of Liberia, Namibia, Ethiopia, Niger and Zimbabwe have confirmed their attendance A delegation of leaders from Kenya who attended the burial included former Prime Minister Mr. Raila Odinga; Sabina Chege (Murang'a woman representative), acting High Commissioner of Kenya to Ghana Linus Ogola and other officials from the Ministry of foreign affairs. Graca Machel has also eulogized the diplomat as an African son who helped the world navigate complex issues. "He is in my opinion the secretary general of the UN who's left extraordinary footprint on the global arena. As an African I take pride that it is an African son who helped the world to navigate these very complex issues," quoted the BBC. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Speaking to journalists, the Ghanaian President Akufo Addo described Anan as ‘one of the illustrious people of his generation’ and promised that the state will give Kofi Anan a befitting sendoff. ‘‘We are not taking chances to say a proud farewell to one of the country's most famous son,'' said Akufu Addo Speaking during the burial ceremony, current UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, referred to Anan as 'as an exceptional global leader' ALSO READ:

Revealed: Kenya – Ghana AFCON qualifier gate collection amounted to Sh3.8m "He had that gentle voice that made people smile and think of music but his words were tough and wise. And, sometimes the graver a situation the lower that voice would get.” The ceremony will also include a 17 gun salute with full military honours which will mark the end of the three days of national mourning for the diplomat.?