Police in Naivasha have launched a manhunt for a group of youths who attacked and robbed a police officer off his gun. During the incident in the sprawling Karagita estate along Moi South Lake road, the senior officer was seriously injured and rushed to Naivasha sub-county hospital. ALSO READ:

MP saves three abused children The officer had raided a den where the youths were selling bhang and illicit brew when they turned against him, beating using all manner of crude weapons. Following the incident, tens of armed police officers descended on the estate which is home to hundreds of flower farm workers and arrested some suspects though the gun was not recovered. A witness Samuel Njihia said that the youths who have been selling the drugs openly overpowered the lone officer and managed to steal his pistol and 15 rounds of ammunition. “The issue of bhang is a major concern for residents of this estate and we are asking security agencies to make sure that those behind the illegal trade are arrested,” he said. According to area Chief Hassan Guyo, the officer was rushed to the hospital and is in stable condition though he had suffered injuries on the head and hands. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. He expressed his concern over an emerging criminal trend among youths involved in motorcycle business noting that they needed to be tamed. “We have seen an emergence of underage youths who are riding motorcycles and they are very vulgar and violent and hence there is need to address this,” he said. Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru confirmed the attack of the officer and the loss of the gun adding that they were working to recover it. ALSO READ:

Kin want officers 'in love with girl' held Meanwhile, a group of minors escaped death narrowly in Ndabibi village in Naivasha after their houses caught fire. Three families living in Kathodia center in the agriculture rich area were reduced to ashes with members of the public rescuing six minors who were sleeping in two of the houses. Naivasha sub-county assistant commissioner John Opondo confirmed the incident adding that nothing was salvaged from the timber-houses. “No one was injured as the minors were rescued in the nick of time but the three families have been reduced to paupers as nothing was salvaged,” he said.