Any resident of Kenya will at some point have had an encounter with the police. Pleasant, if you are on the right side of the law, brutal if you are a miscreant and from the wrong side of the tracks.  As much as there is pretence about the law enforcement being applied equally to all, it is not. There are those who drive on the wrong side of the road with a cavalcade of escorts blaring sirens. These are the ones whose dalliances with the police always end pleasantly; then there are others who wait patiently in infernal traffic jams but still get arrested for minor infractions like broken tail lamps or breaching speed limits by a fraction. ALSO READ:

Domestic Services Sector Key to Economic Growth Horrid experiences Which is why recent reports of the government’s decision to allow traffic police to impose instant fines on minor traffic offences is welcome. Those unfortunate enough to have been nabbed by a traffic officer tell of how it is never about enforcement of law and order but a systematic shake-down that leaves one lighter in the pocket and the cops richer. It usually starts when one is flagged down. From the mock salute and affectations of respect punctuated by the word “afande,” it is a set-up. A litany of offences is usually conjured with the promise of a let-off induced by a cash gift. Should one be conscientious and resist, they are arrested and thereafter, arraigned in traffic court in hand-cuffs. All these, for a mundane omission like forgetting to sign one’s licence. It is seldom inexpensive. Pleading innocent subjects one to court hearings at later dates. Even if one wins their case, the amount of money spent far outweighs the moral victory. There never is any compensation for wasted time. Hopefully, the spot-fines will put an end to traffic-police shenanigans or at least, ameliorate the blatant official theft from motorists. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. But it is the recent changes to the official police uniform that have elicited far greater debate than other reforms. A good number find nothing wrong with the old uniform arguing as the Americans do that “if it aint broke, don’t fix it.” Others argue that even though police procurement is governed by restricted tendering or single-sourcing, opening the search for an ideal uniform to the public would not have jeopardised national security. Rather, it would have enhanced public participation in an activity of national significance. Further, it would have demystified the police as possessors of esoteric knowledge complete with official regalia for their arcane crafts. The resultant goodwill would have been enough to engender acceptance of other reforms. Force or service? ALSO READ:

KPC recalls fuel mixed with water amidst protest Beyond the superficiality of brand new uniforms, the police reform agenda continues to be an on-going concern. The transition from the old order of “Force” to the new one of “Service” is captured in the Revised Police Reforms Programme Document of 2015-2018. Chapter 2 of this document lists the relationship of reform components in the National Police Service. These include structure, systems, style, staff, skills, strategy and shared values. That these components are yet to make an overarching difference is evident in the anachronistic public perception where the police are feared rather than respected, always avoided and only a last recourse for help in extremis. To be fair, the police have had to work in gnarly conditions. Memories are still fresh of those who were massacred by cattle-rustlers in the dreaded Suguta Valley. Survivors tell of standard police-issue boots that melted on the feet of wearers in inclement weather and how the rustlers overwhelmed them by the sheer sophistication of their firepower. Other stories abound of how the police pick the remains of accident victims without basic protective gear like gloves, or how they are forced to live in hovels that pass for houses, families sharing single rooms partitioned only by bed sheets. President Uhuru Kenyatta has moved to mitigate the deplorable housing situation by the abolishing free and mandatory housing for junior officers.  He has instead directed that they be paid house allowances that will enable them to live in houses of their choice. Further, he has made changes in the command structure to enhance the service element. Whilst the new uniforms may be symbolic of a break with the past, many Kenyans have pronounced them singularly unattractive. Mr Khafafa is Vice-chairman, Kenya-Turkey Business Council ALSO READ:

LSK leaders survive as ouster petition is trashed 