Former Kakamega Diocese Bishop Philip Sulumeti (left) has a word with Kakamega County Governor Wycliffee Oparanya, Deputy President William Ruto, and Cord Principal Moses Wetangula during ordination ceremony of Joseph Obanyi as the new Bishop Kakamega Diocese at Bukhungu stadium on March7, 2015. [Photo:Benjamin Sakwa/Standard] Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya says he has personally asked Deputy President William Ruto to support his presidential bid in 2022. ALSO READ:

Ward reps in trouble for visiting Ruto According to Mr Oparanya, the Deputy President's chances of succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta are remote due to shifting political alliances and mistrust in Jubilee Party. “I met Ruto and told him of my intentions to run for the presidency after finishing my second term as governor. I didn’t go to ask money from him but I was seeking back-up for my 2022 presidential bid,” said Oparanya. Speaking in Khwisero sub-county while inspecting development projects, the governor told Ruto to start reading the "impeccable signs on the wall". “Going by the current mood in the country after the handshake deal between Uhuru and Raila, the political landscape has changed drastically and DP Ruto has no chance of winning in the presidential polls,” he said. He said it was time for the DP to pay back for the support he had received from Western region since 2013. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Presidential ambitions The governor said if Ruto shelved his presidential ambitions in his support, it would not be a sign of cowardice or disrespect but of great statesmanship. “After former South African President Nelson Mandela served for just one term, he stepped down and handed the mantle to Thabo Mbeki. Let DP Ruto back me for the presidency so I can prepare a soft landing for him in 2027." ALSO READ:

Counties eye four lenders in new plan The Orange Democratic Movement deputy leader also dared his party boss Raila Odinga to support him ahead of the 2022 polls on grounds that he had been a loyal servant of the party. He also said he didn't expect Raila to be on the ballot in 2022. “Raila has had four unsuccessful stabs at the presidency in 1997, 2007, 2013 and 2017. Time has come for him to call it quits and pass the mantle to me,” Oparanya said