Bishop Anthony Muheria of Nyeri Diocese prays for Uasin Gishu County Governor Jackson Mandago (centre), during the 14 Annual National prayer day at Mother of Apostles Seminary Grounds in Eldoret yesterday.  08.09.2018. [PHOTOS: PETER OCHIENG/STANDARD]. Uasin Gishu governor, Jackson Mandago will today be grilled on audit queries that relate to use of taxpayers’ money in the county. ALSO READ:

Labour ministry on spot over Sh480m The governor will appear before the Senate Public Accounts and Investment committee to respond to matters raised in the Auditor General reports for 2013/2014 financial year. The Senators, who are sitting in Uasin Gishu, are expected to question Mandago on failure to bank Sh133 million revenue collected by the county as required by the law. According to the Auditor General, this was not done, creating loopholes for unscrupulous county officials to siphon revenue meant for provision of county services. “The expenditure was incurred without the authority of the Controller Budget and as a result, the county executive was in breach of the law,” said the auditor general. He also found that under Governor Mandago’s watch, the county directly sourced suppliers of vaccines at a cost of Sh15 million. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. There were no documents to show that the procurement process for the medical equipment was above board and that there were reasonable grounds to acquire the vaccines from the particular supplier. Under the law, direct procurement can only be done in circumstances where goods or services are available only from a particular supplier or contractor. It can also be done when a particular supplier or contractor has exclusive rights in respect of the goods, works or services, and no reasonable alternative or substitute exists. A similar case reared its head in the acquisition of fuel, oil and lubricants worth Sh44 million. The fuel was directly procured contrary to section 74 of the Public Procurement and Disposal Act, 2015. ALSO READ:

Eldoret to profit from Senate trip House team The House team will also question Mandago on Sh87 million unauthorised expenditure during the financial year under review. The Auditor General could not confirm if the expenditure was properly incurred as the use of the money was not sanctioned. “No explanation or approval was given for the excess expenditure. Consequently, the propriety of excess expenditure incurred by the county government for the year ended 30 June 2015 could not be confirmed,” the auditor said. Further, the county also failed to provide documents to support a Sh330 million expenditure. Other queries facing Mandago include irregular borrowing of funds, irregular loans to cooperative societies and unaccounted for imprests by county employees. The auditor noted that the county financial statements did not provide adequate information for sufficient audit. ALSO READ:

Let’s reflect on what our nation genuinely needs “I have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a basis for an audit opinion. Accordingly, I do not provide an opinion on the financial statements,” he stated. The oversight Senate committee has powers to invite and summon governors to respond to issues raised in the audit reports. 