The circumstances we are in require brutal honesty, candid debate and sacred sobriety in search of robust and sustainable solutions from this economic quagmire. Ultimately, the basic rules of economics remain the same; respect no man and cannot be cheated off their course by “lemonade” speeches. It is the same rules that stripped off the British Empire the prestigious super power slot and handed it to the USA after World War II in 1945. It is these same rules that brought the Gold standard tumbling in 1971, and transmitted a highly contagious economic flue across world financial markets in 2008, before capping it with the Greek debt crisis in 2010 and bringing to shame the sovereignty of the world’s oldest civilization. Let’s now dissect the facts: ALSO READ:

Uhuru versus Maraga; Who will blink first? First, there is no Sh70 billion to be collected from the 16 per cent (or is it now 8 per cent VAT?) on petroleum products. It is a fallacy. To think on the contrary is a complete ignorance of the classical “Zero Sum Game” economic theory. As expected, the chain reaction after the taxes were imposed about two weeks ago was an increase in transport costs and consequently in general prices across board. Consumer incomes have not changed, the taxes have robbed the hoi polloi disposable income, and the only option left for us is to drastically cut consumption on luxuries and other VAT-able items. We can only afford the basic needs, which, unluckily for the taxman, are zero rated. The net effect is no change in overall VAT collected. In the real macroeconomic world, economies grow only through enhancing the disposable income in the hands of the masses and not the other way round. Why has your treasury mandarins not learned from the misguided tax on Keg beer about three years ago? Did it not destroy even the household incomes of the contracted millet farmers, leave alone racking in the billions they imagined? Do we ever learn from our policy gaffes? Government statistics Second, based on official data from the Central Bank of Kenya, nominal public debt grew from Sh1.882 trillion in April 2013 to Sh4.884 trillion in March 2018 (that is Sh3.002 trillion or 160 per cent). In other Government statistics, it is estimated to have closed at Sh5.120 trillion in June 2018 (a growth rate of 172 per cent from April 2013) over the 6.167 year period. Compared to the previous regime, public debt grew from Sh0.630 trillion to Sh1.882 trillion, a growth rate of 199 per cent over the 10.33 year period. But this absolute debt figures do not make economic sense. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. To make sense, we must compare them to the economy’s growth. Based on the same data, the debt to GDP ratio in December 2002 was 61 per cent (0.630/1.035). This had reduced to 42 per cent as at December 2012 (1.793/4.261) but drastically grew to 59 per cent (4.570/7.749) as at December 2017. In the absence of monthly GDP data, the ratio as at March 2018 to December 2017 GDP is 63 per cent (4.884/7.749). These figures exclude debt portfolios held in State corporations or any held by the counties. But the broader question is: What is public debt and how is it related to taxes? In monetary economics, public debt is simply taxes collected in advance, and eventually the Government must tax its people to repay them. It is a politically correct way of increasing taxes. It is, therefore, misleading to argue that there has been no tax increase in the past six years. In a nutshell, the Sh3.238 trillion growth in public debt over the period were taxes collected in advance. That limits not only current taxes that the Government can charge, but also what successor governments can charge without hurting the economy. It’s just the “stupid” facts? ALSO READ:

Uhuru did not receive the 'official and legal' version of the TJRC report Biggest paradox Third, the arguments advanced that it’s all in the pieces of infrastructure we see is another big fallacy. It’s beautiful to the eyes and sweet music to the ears until we start walking the real macroeconomic jargon. For a start, it is an open secret that these pieces of infrastructure are grossly inflated and a huge chunk goes to private pockets. The biggest paradox though is: Do these foreign debts ever percolate into the country’s economic system or they oscillate perpetually in accounts in foreign capitals where they were borrowed? How then do we explain the fact that all local companies producing raw materials and related essentials to these infrastructure projects are either at the verge of bankruptcy or reporting dwindling fortunes as per the financial reports over the past five years? More still, why is it equally hard to quantify any direct or indirect jobs into the economy attributable to the mega projects? Could it be that all we have are huge debt invoices and physical pieces of infrastructure? Where is the real meat within the country’s economic system for the hoi polloi? Given these realities, what then are the options out? First, we must own up that many of these bureaucratic stories do not add up. Only then can we find real solutions to our economic problems. Second, we waste and pilfer more than can ever be collected from any VAT on petrol products, even if it increased to 40 per cent. Reducing it to 8 per cent is no panacea as it still boils down to a zero sum game. Finally, all infrastructure investments must balance between short, medium and long-term interests of the citizenry. ALSO READ:

How Kiplagat played TJRC colleagues like a ping pong Any meaningful and sustainable economic growth can only happen if borrowing and investments into the economy generates real income, jobs and adds the disposable income into the pockets of real people who in turn consume within the economy. And that is the real economics; simple and straight forward. No shortcuts and exaggerations of economic statistics can ever cause deviations to these basic economic rules from their course. Dr Muinde is an economist pmmumo@yahoo.com 