Orange Democratic Movement leader Raila Odinga will tomorrow chair a meeting of the party’s top brass to discuss the defiance of some MPs over the controversial fuel tax. The central committee meeting comes against the backdrop of last Thursday’s chaotic session in the National Assembly during which some of the party’s lawmakers openly defied Raila’s position in supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta’s memorandum over the Finance Bill, 2018. ALSO READ:

MPs plan protests over the new taxation The party leadership is further said to be concerned by remarks made by its secretary general, Edwin Sifuna, that contradicted the party’s position on the matter. Sifuna at the weekend claimed that the “No” camp carried the day but the process was manipulated by Speaker Justin Muturi. “That was open theft, everyone including those who were at home saw who won between the ‘Yes’ and ‘Nays’ then someone say the others won, even if it is handshake somethings we must say is bad,” said Sifuna. At the same time, Jubilee Party Secretary Raphael Tuju has said the ruling coalition was gravely concerned by some of its members who opposed Uhuru’s memorandum. “We don’t have official position on how to deal with the rebel members as much as most of us are concerned about their position on the President’s memorandum to Parliament,” said Tuju. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Apart from Raila, other officials to attend the meeting to be held at Orange House include the two deputy party leaders Wickliffe Oparanya (Kakamega Governor) and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, John Mbadi, Edwin Sifuna, Elections Director Junet Mohammed, Senate Minority Leader James Orengo and Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys. “People have to decide whether they are in ODM or not because the position I was pushing for was the party position,” said Mbadi. “I can have a strong position as an individual but when party pronounces itself on a matter then we have to toe the line. I will personally tell the meeting very clearly that we either must agree that we have a party or not,” he added. ALSO READ:

Overtaxing poor Kenyans will be end of Jubilee, MP warns Lawmakers opposed to the raft of taxes last Thursday caused drama in Parliament while accusing ODM leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta of muzzling Parliament. Some of the ODM MPs who openly opposed the memorandum included Otiende Amolo (Rarieda), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Opondo Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), TJ Kajwang’ (Ruaraka) and Paul Abuor (Rongo).