A Chinese company has discovered a natural water source in Kajiado with a capacity to supply over 1700 cubic metres per hour. China Road and Bridge Corporation that is constructing phase two of the Standard Gauge Railway discovered the source while building a tunnel at Kimuka in Ngong. The water, which began to ooze from an underground aquifer three months ago, has already formed a stream stretching 100km downstream. Locals have in the past been depending on dams that occasionally dry up leaving them thirsty. The area has no seasonal rivers and access to water has been a major challenge. Purified and supplied China Communication Construction Company Deputy General Manager Guo Ging now says his company will build two 800-cubic-metre-capacity tanks that will act as storage for the water which will then be purified and supplied to homes. “We will construct two tanks of 1.6 million litres capacity while piping of the water after undergoing UV treatment will also be done in three months,” Guo said yesterday, during the commissioning of the project. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Residents say the water source is a miracle and a blessing to many. “We have been surviving on limited water supply or digging deep in our pockets to get water at an additional price. Therefore, this is a miracle to us,” says Tabitha Sengeiyan, a resident. “We are optimistic that this water will aid us for domestic use and hopefully small-scale farming. Water scarcity has over the years adversely affected households and we are forced to share unclean dam water with our livestock and wild animals,” says former Kajiado West MP Moses ole Sakuda. However, Governor Joseph ole Lenku, who attended the commissioning of the project warned residents who are already trying to divert the water to their farms, saying the distribution must be systematic and orderly to ensure equity and maximum utilisation by all beneficiaries. The governor says riparian land must be preserved and those who will try to interfere will not be spared by the rule of law. “The water has already been directed to the community Oloshoibor Mega Dam for distribution and local consumption. “Livestock community troughs will be put up along the water stream to aid locals,” Lenku said.