James Kinyua when he was arraigned in court on August 31, 2018 for allegedly raping Form Two girl at Kotur Patrol Base on night of August 23 and 24. [Photo: Ignatius Odanga/Standard] A police officer charged with raping a Form Two student two weeks ago has been released on Sh400,000 bond. James Kinyua was charged before Busia Senior Resident Magistrate Martha Nanzushi with rape and committing an indecent act on August 31. The officer was arrested in Kikuyu, Kiambu County by investigators on August 30 to face the charges. He pleaded not guilty to both charges. The prosecution, led by Gacharia Muriithi, then asked for more time to prepare for the case. The matter will be mentioned on September 24, and hearing is slated for December 11. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Kinyua is alleged to have raped the student on the night of August 23 and 24 in Kotur Patrol Base cells in Teso South Constituency. The victim’s father said he took the girl to the police post after she spent three days in a young man's home. After she was found, the father took the student to Kotur Police Post for disciplining. The officers advised the father to let her spend a night in the cell as a form of punishment. However, in the morning, the girl informed other police officers and her father that she had been raped. “A police officer came in the cell naked. I asked him what was his intention and he told me he wanted to sleep with me,” said the girl. “He had a pistol and a knife. He threatened that if I continued to resist he would either stab me to death or shoot me and disappear,” she added. The officer allegedly pushed the girl to the wall of the cell before he assaulted her sexually. “He later brought me some water and two tablets and ordered me to swallow them. He then gave me his number and told me to call him in case of anything,” she said. The accused reportedly vanished immediately after the minor lodged the complaint. 