Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko Mbuvi speaks after the launch of six buses at his Mua home in Machakos County on September 9, 2018. He has formed a team to probe Pumwani Hospital financial crisis. [Photo: John Muia, Standard] Nairobi County Governor Mike Sonko has formed a 13-member taskforce to investigate management and financial troubles facing Pumwani Hospital. ALSO READ:

Pumwani: Was Sonko out of order? A statement from Governor Sonko’s desk signed by county communications director Elkana Jacob states that the team has been given 30 days to provide a report on the causes of financial crunch at the facility. The members of the taskforce include:  Charles Kerich, Acting CEC Health, Nairobi City County, Dr John Nyamu, Gynecologist Private Sector,  Dr Simon Mueke, Ministry of Health, Prof Joseph Karanja, University of Nairobi Medical School, Dr Anne Kihara, Kenya Obstetrics and Gynecological Society (KOGS), Dr Carol Odula, Kenya Medical Association (KMA) and Mugure Kiambati Principal, Pumwani Maternity Hospital Nursing School. Others are Joe Aketch, former Nairobi Mayor, David Kimaiyo, former IG and current chairman Kenyatta National Hospital Board, Dr Evan Seqeuira, Aga Khan University Hospital, Nathan Kahara, former Nairobi Mayor, Dickson Mbugua, Matatu Welfare Association, Dr Thomas Mutie, CEO Kenyatta hospital and Bashir Admali, Paediatrician of Aga Khan Hospital. At the same time, City Hall boss has reinstated three nurses who had been suspended on claims of inciting the colleagues to strike. “Comprehensive investigations have found that the three, Eunice Thaara Ngari, Magdalene Wambui Ngari and George Maroa Gibore, were not involved in any wrongdoing,” reads part of the statement. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 This is after he made an impromptu visit to the facility where he found dead babies stuffed in nylon bags. What followed was a clash between him and some members of Nairobi county executive. Sonko clashed with his Health CEC on the number of babies and the circumstances in which they may have died. This led to his suspension of County Secretary Peter Kariuki, Health CEC Vesca Kangogo, Officer of Health Services Mahat Jimale and County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka. ALSO READ:

Facts about Pumwani maternity hospital