Kenya is set to receive two high profile visitors in a matter of days as Duke of Cambridge William Arthur arrives today and will be followed by US First Lady Melania Trump. The two are on an African tour to promote their choice projects -- Prince William on conservation and Mrs Trump on children and health matters. ALSO READ:

Melania Trump to visit Kenya in October The British royalty’s first port of call is the British Army Training Unit in Kenya (BATUK) in Laikipia County where the first Battalion Irish Guards Battlegroup will be training. “It is noteworthy that Prince William is a crusader of wildlife conservation and his current tour is largely a conservation affair,” Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi said. Laikipia County hosts half the population of the endangered black rhinos among other endangered species such as Grevy’s zebras. William’s last visit to Kenya was in March 2016 when he met President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House in Nairobi and discussed security matters and wildlife conservation. His engagements in Africa will see him visit Tanzania and Zambia too. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. And during her African tour, Mrs Trump will Ghana, Malawi and Egypt too. When she made the announcement on Wednesday in New York, she did not divulge the details of her itinerary. “In October I will embark on my first solo visit to four beautiful and very different countries in Africa,” Mrs Trump told the gathering of First Ladies from United Nations member states. Self sufficient ALSO READ:

Melania Trump to make solo Africa trip Mrs Trump said she looks forward to promoting the message of her “Be Best” child welfare initiative. She will focus on maternal and newborn care in hospitals, education for children and the role the US plays in helping each country to become self-sufficient. "During the forthcoming meeting, Mrs Trump and her Kenyan host will seek to strengthen the partnership between Beyond Zero and Melania’s ‘Be Best’ Child Welfare initiative both of which are concerned with the health of newborn children among other health concerns,” a State House statement said. 