MPs from the Coast allied to Deputy President William Ruto have vowed to mobilise the region’s residents to vote for “the right president” as a bloc in the 2022 elections. They said such a candidate must be committed to addressing poverty in the region. ALSO READ:

Musalia on the spot after party's threat Two of the MPs mentioned Ruto by name, with Kaloleni MP Paul Katana of ODM describing the DP as “my preferred candidate” while Suleiman Dori, also of the Orange party, saying the region depends on the DP’s support to revive collapsed irrigation projects in Tana River County. Two others - Senator Juma Wario (Tana River) and MP Badi Twalib (Jomvu) - opposed proposals to amend the Constitution, saying such changes will translate into a financial burden on the nation. Katana said he will soon invite the DP to Coast to revive collapsed projects. “I plan to invite the DP who is my preferred candidate to tour and revive these projects,” said Katana. They leaders were speaking in Hola, Tana River County, during a fundraiser. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Katana and some ODM MPs who were allied to Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho have since switched allegiance to Ruto, who has been accused by the Orange party of using money to woo Opposition legislators. Yesterday, 13 Coast MPs drawn from different political parties under the umbrella of “Kauli moja na Pwani moja” said they will visit every part of the region to unite the people and urge them to vote for the right person for president. Last week, the group gathered in Kilifi and faulted Joho as they drummed support for Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, saying he should be spokesman for the Mijikenda community. ALSO READ:

Ruto carries Sh10m in cash to goat auction Yesterday, the group said any serious presidential candidate must visit the region and assure them on how he is going to solve their problems. “Times when only one area of the country developed while others continued suffering is long gone. Whoever wants the presidency must sit with us and tell what he’ll do for us,” he said. Katana said coastal communities should discard minor differences and unite. Senator Wario called for unity among Kenyans. He said amending the Constitution will cause more chaos in the country. Other MPs who attended the fundraiser are Ali Wario Ashaka (Garsen), Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Paul Katana (Kaloleni) and Dan Mwashako of Wundanyi.re than Sh1.4 million was raised.