Nyamira Health Executive Douglas Bosire addresses health stakeholders in this picture taken on August 24, 2018 at Matierio Health Center. [PHOTO: STANLEY ONGWAE,STANDARD]. MCAs want to impeach the health executive because of the poor state of county hospitals. ALSO READ:

Defiant Nairobi MCAs insist Speaker's Elachi's fate sealed They complained that the referral hospital and all the five sub-county facilities were in a deplorable state and accused the executive, Douglas Bosire, of doing nothing to improve services. Bosire is also facing criticism over several stalled projects. The MCAs singled out Nyabogoye Health Centre, which has not been completed four years after it was started. Rigoma MCA Benson Sironga had sought a statement from the health committee regarding the facility. Mr Sironga said residents were demanding to know why the facility had not been completed. "Residents were hoping to have easy access to health services but are now disappointed since the government is dragging its feet," he said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Many factors Mr Bosire said the project had stalled because of many factors, some of which could not be attributed to his department. "The government dragged payment for some of the works that had been completed. However, construction is expected to be completed in the current financial year," said Bosire. ALSO READ:

Nominated MCAs sworn in after 11 months of court battle Bomwagamo MCA Charles Barongo told the assembly that Bosire was unfit to hold office. “This is one executive who is very intelligent when it comes to deceiving, lecturing and convincing by word of mouth but has failed to do what is expected of him. We want a person who can deliver services to the residents,” Mr Barongo said. Ekerenyo MCA Thadeus Nyabaro complained that the Nyamira County Referral Hospital could not offer basic services. "Poor service delivery is becoming a major issue at the county hospital. It is sad that ordinary Kenyans are suffering at the hands of health workers who are reluctant to offer services," Mr Nyabaro said 