The Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) is yet to recover property worth Sh11.6 million a week after Governor Mwangi wa Iria seized it. As a result, the company's operations, including water billing, have been badly affected. ALSO READ:

Governors in raging battle for control of water services A list dated September 6 by Muwasco managers indicates the firm is yet to recover the property that includes technicians' tools, employees' personal effects and electronics. On Monday, Murang’a East Directorate of Criminal Investigations, through Simon Mutua, obtained a court order to enable them to repossess the property from the county government. Some of the recovered items valued at Sh32,231,000, among them motor vehicles and motorcycles, have reportedly been vandalised. Another four trucks worth Sh26.7 million that were towed from county government offices are parked at Murang’a Police Station with some parts said to be missing. Muwasco Managing Director Daniel Ng’ang’a said although the company had resumed distribution of water to all areas, it lacked customers' details. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Computer servers He said computer servers were still missing, crippling operations such as customer billing. “The company was in possession of 22 motorcycles that the police managed to recover from the county government premises,” added Mr Ng’ang’a. ALSO READ:

Crisis as water firm operations paralysed On Monday, police convinced the Chief Magistrate’s Court to issue an order to help recover the items for purposes of investigation. There has been a tug-of-war between Iria and Muwasco chairman Peter Munga over the management of the company. Three weeks ago, Iria appointed finance expert Joseph Kimura to replace Munga as chairman at Muwasco. On Wednesday, county leaders called for an end to the wrangles so the county government and other agencies could focus on their duties An uncle to the suspect's husband said he insisted that the baby be retrieved and the matter reported to police. Area chief Peter King’oo said he instructed those involved to record statements at Emali Police Station. County police boss Joseph Naipeiyan yesterday said: "We are investigating how the baby died as well as allegations that the woman was in an abusive marriage. We will get to the bottom of this." ALSO READ:

Report exposes graft in water firm 