The number of accidents in the country has risen by seven per cent compared to last year according to the latest statistics from the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). Pedestrians and motorcycle operators are leading in the figures while reckless driving has been termed as the major cause for accidents in public service vehicles. ALSO READ:

New tax good for Kenya, says Ruto In the figures, a total of 2,214 Kenyans have lost their lives from January to September this year compared to 2,053 in the same period last year. According to NTSA director for Road Safety Njeri Waithaka, this was an increase in 7.4 per cent of the total accidents under the period. Waithaka said they had witnessed multiple fatalities at night in public service vehicles and pointed to the accident at Kimende along the Nairobi-Naivasha highway where more than 15 people died two months ago as the worst they recorded. She said innocent Kenyans were being knocked by vehicles each day and pointed to irresponsible behaviours where they cross roads in undesignated areas as the main reason. Waithaka said they were carrying out periodic public education and awareness as a means of reducing the fatalities adding that majority of the accidents happened along the Nairobi-Nakuru Highway. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “The Northern Corridor remains one of the most dangerous according to our records and we are working with stakeholders in the transport sector to see how best to deal with the accidents,” Waithaka was speaking during a stakeholders meeting on Nairobi County traffic decongestion plan at Eserian Hotel in Naivasha. She said they had suspended operations of 12 Saccos and deregistered five others that were found flouting traffic rules following investigations by the authority. ALSO READ:

Uhuru's Tough warning to PSVs on raising matatu fares “We have deregistered Silver Agencies, Mathome Water Gate, Mega rider Management Limited, Giwa and Kidatho Saccos after they failed to adhere to the rules,” she said. She said Gakanago, Mbukinya Success, Molo Classic Shuttle, Nairobi Kitu Line services, Narok Safari Services and Molo Shuttle Saccos among others had been suspended over continued flouting of traffic rules. Addressing the press during the meeting the chairman Association of Matatu operators in Nairobi Jamal Ibrahim said the county had 257 registered Saccos hence the need to reduce the numbers so as to decongest the city. “We are working on a plan that will ensure the Saccos are minimized to be able to fit in the small spaces allocated in the CBD and this will help in traffic management,” he said.