The murder trial of Migori Governor Okoth Obado brings back memories of asymmetrical court fights involving powerful accused persons and powerless victims. For example, in 1980, a 19-year old American sailor, Frank Sundstrom was charged in a Mombasa court with the murder of Monica Njeri, 32, a working girl he had met in a night club. Later that night, the two retired to his room, where they quarrelled. Sundstrom broke a beer bottle on Njeri’s head before repeatedly stabbing her with its pieces, the resulting injuries leading to her death. Sundstrom’s trial had attracted much media attention. There was significant outrage when, having admitted the killing, Sundstrom was fined Sh500 for manslaughter. ALSO READ:

Tough battle: What next for Obado? A more recent case involved Tom Cholmondeley, a descendant of the influential colonial settler, the Lord Delamare.  No legal action followed when, in April 2005, Cholmondeley killed a Kenya Wildlife Service game ranger at his Soysambu ranch, near Naivasha.  However, he was jailed for manslaughter in May 2009 for killing Robert Njoya,a stonemason, together with the deceased’s dog. The second killing appeared premeditated, if only because of a history of a previous killing in similar circumstances, and the conviction for manslaughter, rather than murder, looked strange. In the circumstances, Cholmondeley’s imprisonment for eight months seemed manifestly lenient. While the lenient sentencing of Cholmondeley and Sundstrom tempt the conclusion that white privilege was at play, an underlying thread is that, irrespective of colour, the country’s justice system applies different standards, one for the powerful and another for those they dominate. As a further example, while his troubles with the law lasted, Goldenberg scammer, Kamlesh Pattni, habitually received better treatment from the legal system than what was generally reserved for others. The killing of Sharon Otieno coincided with the alleged attempted murder of an official in the Garissa county government, implicating area governor, Ali Korane. While in the end Obado has been charged in court, it is unclear how Korane, who was reportedly also arrested, has been dealt with. Because of what usually happens in cases involving the powerful, there would be little surprise if the case against Korane quietly goes away. Why, then, did the justice system take action against Obado while backfiring against Korane? Three factors may explain why Obado ended up in court. First, his troubles coincided with a major backlash against official action as part of the so-called war against corruption. After the shocking arrest of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, the investigative and prosecution authorities had to act against Obado, both in self-redemption and also as proof that law enforcement decisions are above political considerations. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 As a result, an unusual level of integrity was evident in the investigation of the Obado case, an aberration that was not replicated in the case against Korane, where even the suspicious death of a suspect while police custody has not elicited much official reaction. Secondly, the uncommon amount of media interest that the Obado matter attracted, complete with details of what allegedly happened, made it difficult to stage a cover up. There is a possible third reason. Even in his high position, Obado is ultimately a political outsider and has no friends. In his moment of need he had no favours to call in. In the end, the prosecution against Obado is an unusual development, one that will be uncomfortable for a political establishment whose crimes are resolved before matters reach a courtroom. The fear now is Obado’s case might set a precedent that even powerful classes are liable to prosecution. In the circumstances, it is reasonable to fear that, even though Obado has been charged, the system may still fight to save him. Usually, cases of this nature are made to fail in one of three ways. ALSO READ:

Emotions run high as Monica Kimani is laid to rest First, the investigation may be compromised.  Second, the subsequent prosecution may be botched. Third, the court may give a dodgy judgment, blaming an acquittal on the investigation, the prosecution, or even victim. As stated above, the investigation into this case appears to have been handled competently. While the quality of the prosecution is yet to unfold, the media has so far been kind to Sharon Otieno, the victim of this horrific crime. However, things could change especially if, in his defence, Obado adopts a strategy of blaming the victim, or the court does so in its eventual judgement. Obado now finds himself on trial, literally for his life. However, he is not on trial alone. A legal system that habitually protects the powerful, while re-victimising the weak, is also on trial. How this case is handled will go a long way towards showing whether or not the recent vapourings about accountability for crimes are to be taken seriously or not. The Sundstrom story has a postscript. In 2012, more than three decades after killing Njeri, Sundstrom killed three other women in the US in a head-on collision, while driving at night on the wrong side of the road, drunk. - The writer is Executive Director KHRC gkegoro@gmail.com  ALSO READ:

Musician's husband faces new murder charge