 A postmortem has showed a suspected hit man who was found dead inside a police station died from compression to his neck. ALSO READ:

Police renew interest in Korane as fresh details on murder case emerge The pathologists found marks around the neck of David Mwai (pictured above), who police have claimed hang himself after confessing to shooting former Garissa Finance CEC Idris Mukhtar. The three pathologists however did not rule out foul play adding more samples had been taken for further tests including DNA analysis. Sylvester Maingi, a government pathologist, said that they did not conclude on the manner of death, whether it was suicide or homicide. They had left that for the investigators to decide, Maingi added following the autopsy conducted at the City Mortuary on Monday. “We can confirm that David Mwai died from ligature (something used for tying or binding something tightly) to his neck that was a nylon lining from his jacket,” Maingi said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Maingi however said that the post-mortem examination did not show Mwai having injuries to suggest that anybody was involved in his death. “He does not have injuries on his head, his arms, chest, abdomen or lower limbs,” said Maingi. According to the pathologists, the only injuries that were found on Mwai’s body were two ligature marks on his neck, of which one of them was was the nylon jacket lining which was traced to one of his clothing. ALSO READ:

Shocking details on key suspect’s death inside cell “This ligature was 80 centimetres long and that we have confirmed that it was the ligature that was in contact with the mark on his neck,” Maingi noted. He added that the other ligature was from a packaging bag, but this did not make a mark on his neck and it was 48 centimetres long. He revealed that they also came about other findings that are in keeping with lack of oxygen and they came to a conclusion is that Mwai died from compression to his neck from ligature. Maingi also quickly clarified that foul play cannot be ruled out in Mwai’s death and to this effect, specimens were taken for examination by the government chemist. “We cannot rule out foul play in his death, we have taken all manner of samples including DNA analysis to rule out any foul play,” he said. These will show any chemical substances in his body that could possibly incapacitate him and cause somebody to suspend him. Maingi said the government chemist at most takes a month to reveal their findings because of the complexity in running a blind analysis and doing all manner of tests. ALSO READ:

Governor denies knowledge of shooting of ex-Garissa official Mwai was found last week on Thursday hanging on an overhead water pipe at Parklands Police Station where he was being held in connection to the Mukhtar’s shooting at Kileleshwa, Nairobi. His family members including his sister, Esther Mwai and two others were finally allowed to view his body before the postmortem was conducted. They appeared to be overwhelmed with emotions and declined to comment on the matter, preferring to wait for the postmortem results. Some suspects are still in custody but no one is yet to be arraigned in court following the shooting. Among those who have been interviewed by police are Garissa Governor Ali Korane. Korane has denied playing any role in the shooting of Mukhtar. “I never and would never do that. It is an unfortunate incident and we want police to independently carry out their investigations for the truth to come out. We are equally shocked with the developments into this saga,” he said. The governor has said he has cooperated with police in their probe into the shooting. “I told them I learnt of it just as anyone else and I am ready to go back there for a further statement if and when required. We want independent, credible and reliable probe into this issue,” he added. ALSO READ:

Suspect in ex-Garissa CEC’s attempted murder case 'kills self' He added he did not know Mwai. “I don’t know him. I don’t know any of those mentioned there and I don’t know how I came into the saga.” Korane has denied claims that Mukhtar was probing his academic papers and planned to lodge a case in court to challenge his election. “The only body that can cancel one’s election is a court. We went through the courts following a petition and we were cleared. I am not bothered if any such claims are there and I don’t think they are there,” said Korane. Additional reporting by Cyrus Ombati