Baringo Senator Gideon Moi(center) with Former Attorney General Professor Githu Muigai (left) and Kabarak University Vice Chancellor Kabarak University vice chancellor Professor Henry Kiplagat during the Kabarak Law school international conference on comparative constitutionalism 2018 at Kabarak university on September 27, 2018. [Photo:Kipsang Joseph/Standard] Baringo Senator Gideon Moi yesterday called on stakeholders in the legal field to push for an agenda that benefits all Kenyans. ALSO READ:

Commercial Banks in Kenya raises excise duty Speaking during the launch of Kabarak Law School International Conference on Comparative Constitutionalism 2018 yesterday, Gideon said academicians must nurture future generations. The senator, who is also the Kabarak University pro-chancellor, said civil society and advocates must stop moonlighting and become champions of agenda that helped Kenyans. “Judges must be braver, advocates in court more ethical and academic issues must be in-depth and nurture future generations. Civil society must push for truth and not just the agenda of those who fund them,” he said. The senator also said politicians must be sincere and seek a common good for all before pursuing their own personal good and short-term gains. He urged students not to let the country down, adding that the conference came at a time when the country was at a crossroads politically, financially and socially. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “Act on the values that our Constitution dictates. Kenya is at a crossroads; certain aspects of the Constitution have been put to question and this conference has come at the right time,” he said. Gideon said it was time students focused on finding sustainable solutions to problems the country faced. “We trust in your academic leadership, honesty, problem-solving and present sustainable solutions. We need your ideas and input. Do not let Kenya down.” ALSO READ:

Government will not stop fish imports as yet He assured the law school of full support from the board of trustees. Kabarak University Vice Chancellor Henry Kiplagat said the Kabarak School of Law was centered on constitutionalism and good governance. Prof Kiplagat noted that the school had distinguished itself as a good governance academy among Kenya’s legal scholarship. “Kabarak University School of Law is a centre of excellence in legal research in Kenya and the whole of East Africa; it has distinguished itself as a good governance academy,” he said. He revealed that the students ran the Kabarak University Law Review and a monthly law bulletin that gave them an opportunity to perfect their research and editorial skills. Next crop “We have no doubt that the next crop of publicists will come from Kabarak University School of Law,” he said. ALSO READ:

Moi stirs excitement in Eldoret Former Attorney General Githu Muigai said there was need to think of a Constitution that was part of the country’s political, social and cultural life. Prof Muigai said there must be a civic virtue and that citizens must be responsible, adding that learners and tutors of law should learn how to fill the gaps where the Constitution failed to provide. “The legal academy must begin to teach, interrogate and research how civic values feed civic constitutionalism.”