  A suspect believed to have been killed by a police officer died from a bullet to the head, a postmortem has determined. The report by Titus Ngulungu, a Government pathologist at the Nakuru Mortuary, said that David Sewe, 36, died as a result of a head injury caused by a single gunshot. The postmortem examination was conducted last week. Dr Ngulungu noted that Mr Sewe had two gunshot wounds from a bullet that entered through the left ear and exited from the right side of the neck. The rest of Sewe’s body did not exhibit any signs of injury. Sewe was arrested by police officers at Pondamali estate on August 27 after allegedly been found with 11 rolls of bhang. He was detained at the Central Police Station and was later shot along Moses Mudavadi Road. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Relatives and friends gathered outside the mortuary as the postmortem was conducted. Ten-year-old Musa Sewe, a son of the deceased, sat crying at the door. Musa’s grandmother, Margaret Akoth, could be seen trying to console the boy. She too broke down and wept. The law Ms Akoth said her son should have been allowed to live to face the law. A policemen, Joshua Kosgei, was arraigned on August 28 in connection with the killing. He did not take plea as officers investigating the case sought more time to conclude their inquiries. The investigating officer wanted to be allowed to detain Kosgei for another 14 days after informing the court that he had yet to receive a report on his firearm from a ballistics expert. Nakuru Senior Resident Magistrate Faith Munyi granted the request. “Having read the application presented before the court by the investigating officer and the supporting affidavit and having heard the suspect, I find that the application has merit and is allowed as prayed,” ruled the magistrate “That the respondent (Joshua Kosgei) continue to be held at Central Police station Nakuru or any other police post for a period of 14 days.” 