  Kanu party branch officials in Rift Valley have appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to back Baringo Senator Gideon Moi to succeed him in 2022. The party officials drawn from Nandi, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties over the weekend held a retreat at Cheptebo in Elgeyo Marakwet and endorsed the Baringo senator for the top seat. ALSO READ:

VAT on petrol harsh on taxpayers, Moi tells Government The retreat was meant to strategise how to strengthen Gideon's presidential candidacy. “The President had promised to back Senator Moi at a delegates' conference in Nairobi in the run-up to the 2017 General Election,” said Rift Valley Kanu co-ordinator Paul Kibet. He said Gideon was better placed for the presidency because he was beyond reproach. “The country accomplished great milestones during former President Daniel arap Moi's 24-year rule and that is why the party should take power after President Kenyatta. Senator Moi has a clean track record untainted by corruption,” he said. Mr Kibet added that the party supported Uhuru in the fight against corruption. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “We are asking President Uhuru to take the war on corruption to the doorsteps of the lords of corruption if he wants to leave a legacy and achieve his Big Four agenda." He said in readiness for 2022, the party had rolled out its grassroots mobilisation across the country. “In the Rift Valley region, we are currently holding consultative meetings that will lead to a major one in Nakuru next month,” he said, adding that the meetings brought together youths, elders, women and professionals, with a focus on popularising the party. ALSO READ:

We’ll back you, Njuri Ncheke elders tell Gideon Moi “Member registration is ongoing We are targeting 16 million members across the country. in Rift Valley region we are projecting to have over 2.5 million by 2019,” he said. Soi branch Kanu chairman Philemon Lel announced the revival of party offices in all counties, saying elections for party officials would be held soon. “Kanu grassroots meeting is the beginning of the party’s rebranding and renewed registration ahead of 2022 elections” said Mr Lel. Baringo branch Kanu official Stanley Kipkechem called on Gideon's critics to desist from making unfounded statements against him. “They should stick to their lanes and let us meet at the ballot box," he said. His Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Julius Kipsoi said Uhuru was bound by the support the region gave him in the last two elections.  ALSO READ:

Gideon and Joho to work together