  A girl who claims that her teacher defiled and impregnated her last December is still waiting for justice. The Standard Eight pupil, who gave birth a week ago, is accusing the teacher of taking away her future and the police of not taking any action against the suspect. ALSO READ:

Samboja speaks on border rows When The Standard started making inquiries about the incident six months ago, Makueni County Commissioner Maalim Mohammed promised that the girl’s claims would be investigated and action taken against the suspect. But nothing has happened. At Makueni Police Station, OCPD Bosita Omukholongolo admitted that the suspect had not been arrested for interrogation months after the matter was first reported. “It’s unfortunate he has not been arrested. Every effort has been made,” said Mr Omukholongolo. The 16-year-old girl is now trying to adjust to life as a young mother. When The Standard visited the family home last week, she had taken her week-old baby to Kilala Dispensary, about 15km away. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Broke down She returned at about 2pm, and broke down as she recounted the events leading to her predicament. She claimed that the suspect dragged her to his house and defiled her before giving her Sh50 in exchange for her silence. ALSO READ:

Policeman on the run after raping Form 3 girl in cell The girl said her teacher had also defiled her several times in his office before he was transferred to a nearby school. Female teachers at her school started to suspect she was pregnant and sent her to the clinic for a test, which turned out positive. Now, the girl says, her future is uncertain. “My dreams are gone, I thought of going back to sit the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination, but I don’t think I will perform well,” she said. She said the worst part is the taunting from former fellow pupils as she passes near the school with her baby. Her mother accused the police of abandoning the case and appealed for help to conduct DNA tests to help settle the matter once and for all.  ALSO READ:

What we can learn from Kibwana’s Makueni