Two Kericho Members of Parliament have petitioned the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) to investigate Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina over the escalating clashes around the Mau forest complex. The MPs Nelson Koech (Belgut), Kipsengeret Koros (Soin/Sigowet) said they had video evidence of Ole Kina making incitement utterances which sparked off the bloodletting. ALSO READ:

Three hurt in fresh flare-up over Mau “There is no doubt that the escalating clashes are politically instigated. Security and other agencies must for instance must investigate Narok Senator for his utterances.  There is a video evidence whereby Ole Kina was captured declaring that he would lead vigilantes to evict innocent land owners from their farms,” said Koech. Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya also came under fire from the legislators during the burial service of Florence Mitei, which was held at Motero Village in Soin/Sigowet constituency. Koech accused the county commissioner of inaction over Ole Kina’s criminal utterances despite being made in his presence. “The other day the county commissioner declared that action will be taken against political leaders who don’t measure their words. Who else does he want to look for if not Ole Kina who is turning into a warlord,” posed the Belgut MP. Koech warned the politician that he risks being prosecuted for failing to protect the lives and properties of innocent Kenyans. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 On his part, Koros pointed out that the clashes emanated from the Mau forest evictions saga and asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to halt the process until the boundary issue is resolved once and for all. “Let the president demonstrate that he is still in charge of the country and end the killing and the humanitarian crisis being created around the Mau forest eviction saga,” he said. ALSO READ:

Five killed in clashes as politicians face probe