US First Lady Melania Trump has confirmed that she will visit to Kenya early next month. The US First Lady has said during a meeting with First Lady Margaret Kenyatta at the US Mission to the UN in New York where Mrs Trump hosted spouses of visiting Heads of State to a grand reception Wednesday. ALSO READ:

Relief as new technology to detect pregnancy complications While welcoming the First Ladies, Mrs Trump confirmed that she will be visiting four African countries in the first week of October this year including Kenya, Ghana, Malawi and Egypt. “In October I will embark on my first solo visit to four beautiful and very different countries in Africa,” Mrs Trump told the gathering of her colleague First Ladies drawn from a cross a section of UN member states. During the reception, Mrs Trump personally acknowledged her counterparts from the countries that she will be visiting in Africa-the First Ladies from Kenya, Ghana and Malawi, all of who were present. Mrs Trump said she looks forward to promoting the message of her “Be Best” child welfare initiative during the four country Africa trip. The US First Lady's stops in the four African countries will focus on maternal and new born care in hospitals, education for children and the role the US plays in helping each country to become self-sufficient. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Mrs Trump's agenda during her first solo visit to Africa resonates well with First Lady Margaret Kenyatta's Beyond Zero initiative where neonatal care, children, adolescents as well as maternal health are key concerns. This is the second time Mrs Trump and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta are meeting in the recent past having first met at the White House in Washington DC during a State Visit by President Uhuru Kenyatta to the United States in August this year. Other guests at the reception included Ms Karen Pence, wife of US Vice President Mike Pence. ALSO READ:

First Lady launches ‘Medical Safari’ to boost rural health care