Petitions seeking to oust Law Society of Kenya (LSK) officials will not be part of the Special General Meeting (SGM) on Saturday. The decision to strike out the two petitions seeking to oust LSK President Allen Gichuhi, General Membership Representative Roseline Odede and LSK Chief Executive Officer Mercy Wambua (right) was arrived at on Monday after an LSK Council meeting. ALSO READ:

Karua suffers another blow as Court rejects her application LSK members Edward Waswa and Sylvester Mbithi had sought members' nod to kick the trio out. Mr Waswa, in a notice of Motion dated August 23, wants the SGM to impeach Ms Wambua. And in a petition dated August 16, Mr Mbithi argues that both Gichuhi and Odede served LSK Council under the repealed law on diverse periods. However, Gichuhi explained that the SGM was called for purposes of looking at the draft Law Society of Kenya (General) Regulations 2018, and that it would stick to the agenda. Gichuhi said if any member was aggrieved and wanted to oust him, then there was a right procedure. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “There are a few disgruntled members who just want to cause distraction in the society,” said Gichuhi. He further explained that under his leadership, LSK had achieved many strides in practice and welfare of members. While fighting off the ouster bid in Mbithi’s petition, Gichuhi said there were a few elements that had started premature campaigns ahead of the 2020 LSK polls. ALSO READ:

LSK asks State to review Judiciary projects “I have the power to make ruling on petitions. We met as a council and we resolved that we will not entertain any petition apart from one agenda – to review the draft regulations,” said Gichuhi. The 15,000 membership society will also make consideration on the LSK International Arbitration Centre Legal Audit Report for adoption. The SGM will also consider two Motions received from the LSK Development and Investment Committee on re-development and construction of a modern office block at LSK headquarters on its Gitanga Road plot. There is also a Motion to bring the international arbitration centre project to a closure. 