Migori Governor Okoth Obado has pleaded not guilty of the murder university student Sharon Otieno. The court has ruled that he be remanded at Industrial Area GK Prison, Nairobi. ALSO READ:

Obado aide’s revelations that led to breakthrough Justice Jessie Lessit has also ruled that Governor Obado’s bail application be heard tomorrow at 2p.m. He was represented by four lawyers among them Cliff Ombeta and Nicholas Ombija who requested Justice Lessit to remand him at Gigiri Police Station pending the hearing of bail application. However, this plea was rejected. Assistant Director of Public Prosecutions Jacob Ondari successfully argued that police had no mandate to handle the governor given that he had already been taken to court. Ondari was assisted by Tom Imbali. A statement released earlier by the Directorate of Criminal Investigation said Obado was to be charged with the offence of aiding and abetting the commission of the felony termed murder. By Monday 8 a.m, Governor Obado was already at the court but the case was delayed since the court room had been booked for anothe case. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. In a crisp blue suit, a white shirt and a light blue tie to complete the sartorial harmony, the governor cut a forlorn figure in the dock, his stern look notwithstanding. Obado is facing murder charges alongside his personal assistants Michael Juma Oyamo and Caspal Obiero.  ALSO READ:

Crucial leads that link Obado to Sharon’s murder Sharon Otieno’s mother Melida Auma and her father  Douglas Otieno  had taken their seats at the court to follow the proceedings, hoping that justice will be served to their slain daughter. Otieno's teary mother struggled to contain her emotions during the court session. Last week on Thursday, Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss George Kinoti ordered that Obado be detained at Gigiri Police Station on grounds that he could interfere with the investigations. Access to him was strictly limited. 