For the two years his music career peaked, Benga maestro Okatch Biggy bestrode the entertainment industry like a colossus. Between 1995 and 1997, the artiste gave benga music a new meaning, and went ahead to snatch its control from legend Owino Misiani whose fame spanned Kenya and Tanzania. Biggy stole the limelight after a prolonged lull in benga, which saw kingpins like Ochieng Nelly, Collela Mazee, Awino Lawi, Ochieng Kabasellah, George Ramogi and Ouma Omore take a beating from invasion of the local scene by Congolse music. His seismic beats and striking compositions laced with words that bordered on the lewd earned him a special place in the hearts of fans in Kisumu, Mombasa and Nairobi where he staged most of his shows. And as his fans prepare to mark the 21th anniversary of his death, they will be thrilled to hear that the musician’s son, Ken Okatch, has a pleasant surprise. The young Okatch, who was only three when his dad died on December 19, 1997 in Kisumu, has embarked on what is likely to be a ‘return’ of Biggy and his Super Heka Heka band. The upcoming artist is working on a remix of Okatch’s hits. He has reached out to former band members Oginga wuod Awasi, Aluoch Jamaranda and Jery Jalamo as his determination to revamp the Super Heka Heka band gathers tempo. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “I have been in touch with most of the original band members who are still alive. If things go as per plan, we will start with a remix of Chuo to chuo duto,” Ken tells the Sunday Standard in an interview in Nairobi. He adds: “My father set the bar so high. I may not command as many fans but I am determined to keep his legacy alive.” Chuo to chuo duto (men should be men enough) is a popular track that extols Okatch’s friends. He composed it but died shortly before production. It was later recorded by his band with Oginga as lead vocalist. The younger Okatch says he has finished digitising each of his father’s tracks. Initially available on analogue cassettes only, Ken has transitioned all of them into CD’s and created an online library where benga lovers purchase them online. He is now the copyright holder. The artiste hopes to fill the void his father’s death left in the entertainment industry. Biggy’s most popular songs include Okatch Pod Angima, Lizzy, Dorina, Okello Jabondo, Rosemary Nyayala, Adhiambo Nyakobura, Nyathi Nyakach, Isaiah Ogwe, Dave Ayoro, Caleb Doctor and Adhiambo Nyakobura. The 1996 album of Hellena wang’e dongo catapulted him to instant fame.  “Nyathi Nyakach has had more than 64,000 views on YouTube with Okello Jabondo somewhere close to 44,000 views within a month,” Ken says, adding: “There is also a Facebook page for Okatch fans.” Biggy, born in 1956 in Gem, Siaya, had a way with words. His signature phrases included Siandagi dongo aweyo (I have shunned big bottoms) and Owara (I have reformed). In his 30-minute hit of Adhiambo Nyakobura, he describes Ruth, the subject of the song as Oromo neno duk (pretty when naked). Okatch’s son says he is reaching out to his father’s friends to help him establish Okatch Biggy Music Academy to support talented youth and to promote HIV and Aids awareness. “I urge Biggy’s supporters to extend a helping hand so that we do something proper in his memory,” he says. The original Super Heka Heka band members were Ouma Jasuba (rhythm guitarist), Paul Olang’o (vocalist), Owiti Ahuja (solo), Adwera Okello (bass) and founder Okatch.