  More police officers will be deployed to Lake Victoria to protect the country’s territory, the Government has said. In a meeting with Nyanza regional security teams yesterday, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said his office and that of Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet were working on a joint report that is expected to be out by November, when the order is set to come into effect. ALSO READ:

Rich homeowners go smart on security According to Dr Matiang’i, police in Nyanza have done a commendable job and it was the turn of the Government to appreciate this by actualising reforms in the sector. “I joined the ministry in August last year when a lot was going on. We have now settled and we will soon unveil plans to intensify security in the lake,” said Matiang’i. The CS, who was accompanied by Mr Boinnet and Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, toured the immigration office in Kisumu before holding a meeting with regional security officers led by Police Commander Lewnard Katana. Officers’ morale Mr Katana brought to Matiang’i’s attention the unfavourable working conditions, which he said needed to be improved in order to boost officers’ morale. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Among Katana’s requests was expansion of the police communication system that he said only covered the town and its immediate environs, making it difficult to monitor security situations in far-flung regions. “In Kisumu, we have one OCPD handling Kisumu Central and Kisumu East sub-counties, which is quite expansive. We would be glad to have each area with its independent command,” added Katana. Matiang’i admitted that he was aware of the challenges facing the police in the area, adding that the report would bring a lasting solution to the challenges. ALSO READ:

Fisherman drowns after attack He noted that the Government would buy more vehicles to facilitate patrols and security responses, especially in rural areas, which he said had long been neglected. Matiang’i also said the issue of police housing was extensively addressed in the new report and that officers should expect the good things from his office. Incomplete projects “Currently we are going round the country to find out all the incomplete projects at police stations and ensuring that they are done as we evaluate how much more we need to add. I promise you that by 2022, life will never be the same again for police.” The CS said his office was also working with MPs to seek funding to support some police infrastructure projects through the constituency development funds in their respective regions. Boinnet said his office was keen to ensure improved working conditions for the police. “We are on course in addressing most of the issues facing the police because we understand them.” Separately, six Kenya fishermen are facing charges in a Ugandan court for allegedly fishing in Uganda waters and being in a possession of illegal fishing gear. ALSO READ:

Residents living in fear of gang attacks Migori Police Commander Joseph Nthenge said the six were arraigned on August 25 with the case set to be mentioned on September 6. “The matter is being handled at the highest level. There is nothing more to do now because we have forwarded the issues to top Government authorities,” said Mr Nthenge. According to the Nyangwena beach management unit chairman, Zadock Kawa, the six - Jacob Ogweno, Nelly Ochieng’, Michael Supi, Odhiambo Nyundo, Kosu Odira, and a form four student - have been detained for the past nine days.