Peter Wanyoike an alleged serial defiler in a Nakuru court on July 28 after his arrest in Nyahururu. [PHOTO: Julius Chepkwony/Standard] A court has referred a suspected rapist to Mathare Hospital for further assessment. ALSO READ:

Minor who had seven needles in her body discharged This was after two national hospitals gave conflicting reports on Peter Wanyoike Macharia's mental status. Mr Macharia, 39, was first taken to Rift Valley Provincial General Hospital and a second opinion was sought from Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH) in Eldoret. The assessments were conducted by Dr Njau JW and Dr Mwangi F. In his report dated February 5, Dr Mwangi indicated that the suspect was fit to stand trial. The report showed the suspect has an antisocial disorder, in which a person has a pattern of manipulating, exploiting or violating others’ rights. “Individual has an antisocial personality and enjoys causing suffering to others, is deceitful and a danger to others,” read Dr Mwangi’s report. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. However, Dr Njau said he was unstable. Irresistible urges “I found him to be mentally unstable; he said he experiences irresistible urges to defile girls even in public and due to this behaviour, he has been attacked by mobs,” his report said. ALSO READ:

Officer in varsity student's killing to remain in custody He said Macharia suffered from an episodic psychotic disorder and recommended that he should be confined in a psychiatric unit since he could be a danger to young girls. The disorder is characterised by delusions, hallucinations and disorganised speech among other symptoms. Senior Resident Magistrate Yvonne Khatambi ordered that at least three psychiatrists carry out the assessment at Mathare and their report submitted in 21 days. Macharia faces two cases of defiling an 11-year-old girl in Hyrax estate on April 23, 2013, and a nine-year-old girl in Kiratina estate on May 16, 2015. 