  Two hundred and seventy families in Murang’a will be supported to rebuild their houses after they were damaged by landslides during the long rains. The beneficiaries are scheduled to receive building materials from Kenya Red Cross, after they were taken through counseling after the traumatising acts of nature. Kangema and Kigumo sub counties were highly affected by landslides which left several people dead and land and property badly damaged. On the victim, Peter Karanja from Gitugu village in Kangema said the families did not get any support from the government and had suffered much while being accommodated by relatives and friends. “It has been a long wait but there is a ray of hope as details of expected building materials have been given out,” said Karanja. KRC Mt Kenya Manager Mr Gitonga Mugambi said delay to release building materials was mainly due to the need to train and counsel the residents in the affected areas to cope with new lifestyles. Gitonga said they had also been awaiting for a geology report to guide the process, after some parts of land were found be completely destroyed. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. He added that some of the affected families need to be relocated as no structures can be built in their damaged land. “Starting this week buildings will be distributed to the victims and construction of homes can start immediately,” he said. Gitonga said funding to facilitate the building will be released in phases to ensure there is transparency, followed by regular inspection. In the first phase, the beneficiaries will get each Sh40,000 to enable them lay foundations for their new homes. He added there will be routine inspection to ensure there will be timely release of additional funds to the beneficiaries. “Families whose land was found completely destroyed during a survey by geologists will have to wait to know if they will be relocated. But if they have place to construct they will be supplied with materials, and access other support from the organisation,” he said. 