Marianne Mwaniki has joined Visa Inc as senior vice president of social impact, with responsibility for the company’s strategy in financial inclusion, financial literacy, corporate social responsibility and corporate giving programmes. In this new role, Ms Mwaniki will also lead the Visa Foundation. Prior to joining Visa, Ms Mwaniki spent over 20 years in the international banking sector, leading teams across Africa, Europe and Asia. She was previously the Standard Chartered managing director in charge of individual clients Africa, where she held a various positions encompassing financial solutions delivery among other roles. She is also founding member of the Africa Leadership Network, and holds a master’s degree from the London School of Economics. Simon Konji has been appointed the DT Dobie Nairobi Service Manager in charge of the repair and servicing of Mercedes Benz passenger cars, trucks and buses, Volkswagen cars and light commercial vehicles, Hyundai trucks and GWM Wingle pick-ups. He is a qualified technical training instructor who was the head of the automotive department at Nairobi Technical Training Institute prior to joining DT Dobie 29 years ago. Initially, he was the training manager of the Company and later became the manager of the Volkswagen, Nissan and Mercedes Benz commercial vehicle workshops. During his career with the company, he has undergone extensive training in Germany covering the Mercedes Benz range of vehicles. Hotel Saphire has appointed Eustace Mutua as new general manager. Mr Mutua, who previously worked for Protea Kuramo Waters Hotel in Lagos, Nigeria and a host of hotels in Kenya and Uganda brings on board a wealth of experience to the facility Mombasa city hotel. Mutua has over 20 years of working in both junior and senior managerial positions in the hospitality industry, and his new managerial position will endear him to reposition the Mombasa hotel as a hotel of choice in both standards and ambiance. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. He is expected to lead the hotel generate more revenue after the facility was out of business for close to four years. Other areas where Mutua has horned his skills include Liquid Silk Group of Companies, Fairmont Group of Hotels and Shaza Beach Resort.