A police officer escorts 29 year old Erick Makau Musila to the Naivasha High Court on 10th February ,2016 to face charges of Murder. Musila denied the charges of killing musician Daiana Chemutai alias Chelele and the case will now be heard on the 9th and 10th of may this year. [Photo: Antony Gitonga/Standard] The husband of musician Diana Chemutai 'Chelele', who was implicated in her killing, is scheduled to undergo trial for a second murder. ALSO READ:

'Come we stay' is proof of marriage, court rules Eric Musila had been accused alongside his wife of murdering Eldoret-based surveyor Eliud Kipchirchir. Yesterday, Justice David Majanja ruled that the prosecution had proved that Mr Musila had a case to answer in relation to the killing. The court heard that the incident took place in Ruseya, Konoin district in Bomet County, in March 2012. Following the killing, the accused and his wife were charged and they pleaded not guilty. Chelele died before the case was concluded. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Musila was then charged with the killing of his wife in a case that was heard in a Naivasha court. Two days Chelele’s mutilated body was discovered at her home in Bomet two days after her disappearance on January 7, 2016. In June 2016, witnesses who testified in Chelele’s murder case told a Naivasha court the couple's marriage had been rocked by claims of infidelity. According to Damaris Chepkemoi, a close friend of Chelele, the musician had accused her husband of infidelity before she was found dead. The court also heard that Chelele’s then estranged husband was seen with her a day before she disappeared. The body was discovered in her house two days later. Yesterday, the judge ruled that Musila had another case to answer in the murder that the couple had been accused of committing in 2012. Chelele was listed as the second suspect in the case. “At the end of the prosecution case, I am now required to consider whether to put the accused on his defence. Considered evidence Having considered all the evidence, I have come to the conclusion that the prosecution has made a case against him to warrant him being put on his defence,” said Mr Majanja. “He (Musila) is hereby informed to remain silent, to address the court through his advocates, to give sworn testimony on his behalf,” added Majanja.