KMPDB Chief Executive Officer, Daniel Yumbya (centre) addressing the media after certifying Mmust to start School of Medicine. He is flanked by Prof John Okello (Ag. DVC Academics) and VC Prof Fredrick Otieno. [ Photo: Nathan Ochunge/Standard First batch of medical students are expected to begin classes Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology next week. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDB) gave the nod after inspecting the university’s facilities. The board had earlier put on hold the admission of students until the university management met all requirements, including putting up laboratories and hiring more lecturers. The university said it had spent at least Sh1.5 billion on putting up the medical school. This puts to rest months of concern about the fate of 20 pioneer students who had been selected by the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service to join the institution. Addressing the media at the university yesterday, KMPDB Chief Executive Officer Daniel Yumbya said the university was given the go-ahead to admit the students after meeting all the requirements of starting a medical school. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Dr Yumbya said Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (Mmust) was the ninth institution of higher learning in the country to start a medical school. Elly Nyaim, who is in charge of training and assessment of medical schools at KMPDP, said it had taken the institution four years to get accredited to offer medical courses. The institution’s Vice Chancellor, Fredrick Otieno, thanked KMPDB for giving Mmust the go-ahead to establish the medical school, saying the staff would ensure students were well equipped for service in the healthcare industry. Prof Otieno said 20 more privately sponsored students from Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia and Vihiga counties would be admitted, adding that each county would fully sponsor five students to undertake a degree course in medicine. “Governors Wycliffe Oparanya, Wycliffe Wangamati, Sospeter Ojaamong and Wilber Ottichilo have agreed to cater for their tuition fees and accommodation,” said Otieno. Prof Charles Chunge, the executive dean for the medical school, said the anatomy laboratory could hold 12 cadavers. He added that the university would get the bodies abandoned by relatives. 