A showdown is looming in the county assembly following dissolution of house committees. Some members who have been heading some of the committees have claimed they are being targeted. ALSO READ:

Why we must rein in MCAs to realize fruits of devolution Five ward reps walked out of the chambers last week during a House select committee's session, to protest lack of regional balance in its composition. Susan Ngugi (Marimanti), who is also the deputy Speaker, Njeri Kigwari (Igambang’ombe), Njagi Murandi (Chiakariga), Muthini Karangi and Millicent Mugana (nominated) stormed out immediately the Majority leader Murithi Gaturo stood to move the Motion seeking approval of seven nominees to the select committee, saying Tharaka Constituency was not adequately represented. The Assembly dissolved its 14 committees following a recommendation by the  liaison committee that cited inefficiency and lack of regional balance. Dissolved committees Up to 12 MCAs from Chuka and Maara constituencies and three from Tharaka unanimously endorsed the nominees mandated to select members of the 14 dissolved committees. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. They are expected to table the list in the House tomorrow. Addressing the media outside the assembly on Friday, Murandi claimed there was a plot to oust Tharaka MCAs from Health and Budget committees. He further claimed there were plans to remove Ms Mugana and Mr Karangi from the Budget and Health committees. ALSO READ:

Reps vow to remove health executive Ms Kigwari said the list of select committee members was not all-inclusive because it did not have any representative from her Igambang’ombe ward. According to Mugana, the liaison committee had agreed to re-cluster the House committees before some wardreps voted to dissolve them. “As the liaison committee, we had not agreed on dissolution but rather re-clustering to improve efficiency,” she said. Impeach Deputy Speaker There were also claims of a plot to impeach the Deputy Speaker. The minority leader and the Muthambi MCA Wilson Nderebia, however, dismissed the claims by the MCAs that they were being discriminated against, arguing that two members of the committee came from Tharaka. He said as a member of the select committee, he would ensure regional balance and fairness in selection of the new committee members. ALSO READ:

When dead cats turned up inside Tana River County Assembly 