The entry of Nandi County into the Lake Region Economic Bloc (LREB) will benefit dairy farmers with a ready market in Nyanza and Western regions, the governor Sang has said. “Kisumu and Kakamega towns are second and third leading in fresh milk demand in the country respectively after Nairobi. Our focus as a county is to exploit the potential and that is why I chose LREB,” said Governor Stephen Sang (pictured). ALSO READ:

Kipchoge’s humility conceals his might Speaking during the opening of Lelchego Dairy Farmers’ Savings Credit and Co-operative Society in Mosoriot on Friday, Mr Sang said his government had prioritised agriculture, which takes the second largest share after health in the county’s current budget, by enhancing extension services and also supporting programmes geared towards improving productivity to make the dairy sector an ideal agribusiness venture. “The county government has earmarked Sh130 million towards the establishment of a milk processing plant in Kapsabet,” said Sang as he advised local farmers to stop hawking milk. He said the county had aligned its County Integrated Development Plan with the national government’s Big Four agenda, noting that Deputy President William Ruto was scheduled to launch it today. Mr Ruto is expected to tour development projects in Nandi. Milk processor Sang said the DP would also launch construction work for the milk processor. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “In line with the Big Four agenda, the DP will also open a renal unit and MRI centre at the Kapsabet County Referral Hospital. This will help residents who have had to travel the long distance to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret." Sang said the DP would also launch the Kapsabet town charter, subsidised artificial insemination services and distribution of seedlings for various crops among other programmes. He also advised dairy farmers to adopt the latest production techniques. ALSO READ:

Two killed after vehicle crashes