 Many motorists will be planning on driving away with a new car now that the new “68” registration plates have been launched. ALSO READ:

Two killed after vehicle crashes But for lots of people – including younger drivers – second-hand cars are the only choice, as they are often the only cars that those on a tighter budget can afford to run. Buying a used car is a great way to cut costs, as the first owner has taken the hit of initial depreciation. Most new cars lose around 40 percent of their value in the first year, according to the AA. Picking a model that is a few years old will dramatically slash the upfront cost. But there are risks associated with buying second-hand, so it's important to take your time, and not rush into anything, even if you’re not spending a fortune. What do you need to think about if you plan on buying a used car? Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 When searching for a set of wheels, it’s not just the initial cost of purchase you need to think about. There are also running costs to consider, as well as the condition and ownership of the vehicle. Alex Buttle from car buying comparison site, Motorway.co.uk , said: “It may seem obvious, but think about what you need from the car before you end up with a convertible when you really need a family estate. ALSO READ:

How Germany has shifted back to the basics despite wealth "Think carefully about petrol or diesel, as if you live in London, for example, heavily-polluting diesels now have to pay an additional tax on top of the congestion charge. "You may find hybrid cars are more expensive to buy, but you will pay little or no duty as they are low-emission vehicles.” Also think about the size of car you’re buying, as smaller cars (with smaller engines) are generally cheaper to insure. Where do you get the best value? The key to finding the best value used car is by first getting an indication for how much certain models are fetching for that age and mileage. Sites such as AA Cars can help cut down this legwork by showing you how much certain age models are fetching, while sites such as Parkers, What Car? And Carbuyer will also give you a rough estimate of what a car is worth. Elsewhere, Honestjohn.co.uk and model-specific forum sites can also be a useful source of information on common faults and “what to look for” tips, but bear in mind that the few who have had a poor experience are more likely to be outspoken than satisfied customers. Don’t forget Topgear.com as well. ALSO READ:

Shock as Bett dies in crash James Fairclough, motoring expert of AA cars, said: “Value can be a difficult concept. A cheap price tag might mask the fact the car needs a lot of work down the line. "By contrast, a slightly pricier model from a respectable dealership could have far fewer miles under its belt, so may be better value in the long-term. This is all worth weighing up in the search for your next car.” What about old PCP cars? In recent years, cheap finance and personal contract plans (PCP) have fuelled a boom in new cars. Drivers have been able to buy a brand new car with a relatively small deposit, followed by affordable monthly payments spread over a number of years. Given that drivers upgrade their car after just two or three years, should you specifically look for a car that has been on a PCP deal? Motoring expert, Rebecca Jackson, who presents the WhatCar video reviews, said: “The old PCP cars go into the used network in the same way as a part-exchange car would. "You will not know whether or not a car has been on a PCP deal as this would be classed as part of the data protection of the previous owner. "And, even if a dealer gives a guaranteed value at the time of original sale (when the PCP deal was done), a car is only worth the amount it sells for on the day it sells. ALSO READ:

Why Toyota prices could jump by thousand dollars "When buying a used car, the key is to shop around in several places to find the car that suits you best for a price you can accept – and service you like.” One option you might want to consider is buying a car that is four years old. According to MoneySavingExpert, by a time a car is around four years old, it’s often great value as its price has most likely halved since new – even though it has just 20,000-30,000 miles on the clock. So you might want to consider narrowing your search to cars in this category. Whatever the age, remember you’re not purchasing an asset that will increase in value. Where should you start looking? When it comes to looking for a used car, online is taking over from the forecourts as the best place to start. But while sites such as eBay and Gumtree have thousands of private used car listings, it’s generally safer to buy from dealers, rather than the public. Buttle said: “Dealers tend to have the best quality used car stock – including nearly-new cars still in warranty – plus you have protection if the car has a fault. "Most can offer satisfaction guarantees, warranties, vehicle history checks, and access to finance which you won’t get if you buy direct from the public.” Gary Caffell from MoneySavingExpert.com, agreed, saying: “Buying from a reputable dealer gives you extra protection. "It isn’t always the cheapest option, but you can usually get a warranty and often the dealer will have made the car look and feel new, with faulty parts replaced before sale.” If you’re buying a used car online, try a trusted name, such as AA Cars and RAC cars. Also try sites such as CarGurus, Pistonheades, AutoTrader, Motorpoint, Carcraft and Cargiant. If you buy from a private seller, it’s a case of “buyer beware”, meaning it’s your responsibility to check the car’s condition and history. Fairclough said: “Private deals will be seen on an ‘as seen’ basis with very little comeback if the car goes wrong. So while you might get a better price, you compromise by losing any protection you might have with the purchase.” Buying from a dealer Buying privately via a sites such as eBay or Gumtree Buying from a car supermarket Buying at auction