Armed youth looks on as a chopper carrying top security officers lands at Oleposimuru in Narok North on 27-12-2015. Over 250 houses have been burnt in a spate of violence between two ethnic communities. [PHOTO:BONIFACE THUKU] The Government has declared a dusk to dawn curfew in clash hit areas of Olposimoru, Narok County. ALSO READ:

Matatus hike fares even after VAT slash Rift Valley Regional Coordinator Mongo Chimwanga announced the curfew at OLengape village in Olposimoru where he had visited. Chimwanga said people should be remaining indoors between 6:00PM and 6:00AM until such a time when peace will be restored. He said no one should be found outside and that those found defying the orders will be arrested. “Remain indoors between 6:00PM and 6:00AM nobody should be found outside within those hours. Anybody found outside will be arrested,” said Chimwanga. He added that nobody should be found carrying bows and arrow and or any form of crude weapons. He also warned those behind the clashes in the area and said the long arm of the government will reach them soon. The decision to impose the curfew comes after a two-day meeting between the security personnel and the resident of the two communities. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya on Monday held three separate meeting to address locals. This however did not help to contain the clashes as other seven were injured and over ten houses torched yesterday morning. The government has since said it will deploy more police officers to the area. The Standard established that over five schools have been closed. They include Ole Ng’api primary schools, Ol Mariko primary and Secondary, Ol Posimoru primary and Secondary and Ole Namuga Primary. ALSO READ:

Nairobi listed most dangerous county for newborns in Kenya Women, children and the elderly have sought refuge at St Kizito Primary school in Olenguruone. Amalo Chief Wesley Lang’at said learning has been paralyzed in the area. Lang’at said over 100 families camped at St Kizito. The number is however expected to rise as more families are fleeing their homes for safety. Only one person has been confirmed dead since the clashes erupted on Sunday evening. Tension is still high; however, more police officers have been deployed to help maintain peace. Government declares dawn to dusk curfew in Olposimoru, Narok County, following renewed ethnic clashes in the area. ALSO READ:

Kabuga’s wife seeks city house earnings