A Nairobi resident wants the city government suspended. The chairman of Muthurwa Residents Association Welfare Patrick Kamotho Githinji wants Governor Mike Sonko's administration suspended on grounds that it has failed to deliver services. ALSO READ:

Sonko: Keep off my private life He blames the state of affairs on internal conflicts that have slowed down the city’s development. The petition which is addressed to President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Clerk of the Senate is dated September 10, 2018.  Kamotho argues that suspension of the City Government will ensure that Nairobians do not lose millions of funds through double funding and ghost projects. County Government suspension According to article 192 of the Constitution, the President may suspend a county government on two grounds: First, in an emergency arising out of internal conflict or war. Second, in any other exceptional circumstances. But the suspension doesn’t come easy. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The law is that a county government shall also not be suspended unless an independent commission of inquiry has investigated allegations against the county government and the President is satisfied that the allegations are justified and the Senate has authorised the suspension. The senate has the powers to terminate the suspension. Nairobi County woes ALSO READ:

Court extends orders freezing civil servants assets The Nairobi county government has done little to salvage its tattered image. On Monday, City Hall was a chaotic scene after angry MCAS stormed Speaker Beatrice Elachi’s office to evict her. The assembly had impeached her last week on grounds of violation of the Constitution and failing to meet the Leadership and Integrity Act 2012. Elachi, however, got a temporary reprieve after court reinstated her. The case is currently in court. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has in the past few months been running the county’s affairs from his Mua Hills home, Machakos attracting criticism Sonko moved to Machakos County in May for ‘fear of his life’ after State reduced his bodyguards from 15 to four. The county has also been without a deputy governor after Polycarp Igathe resigned in January this year barely six months after assuming office. Igathe cited failure to earn the trust of his boss Governor Mike Sonko to enable him to deliver services to Nairobians. ALSO READ:

County to use Sh72m on Mama Lucy wing