Conservation of the Mau Forest dominated late Maa leader William ole Ntimama's memorial with Environment CS Keriako Tobiko terming the ongoing ethnic violence in Nakuru/Narok as sabotage of the looming phase two evictions. "I condemn the violence in the two counties but why now? We reclaimed 12,000 acres within five days and another 3,000 through surrender of purported title deeds," said Tobiko. ALSO READ:

MPs turn heat on Senator Olekina He rubbished all the title deeds in the Maasai Mau forest as just papers. "The late Michuki, Kimunya who served before me termed the title deeds as meager papers and I reiterate," he said. He said the second phase will not be interrupted by the ongoing clashes in Narok and Nakuru while calling on security agencies to crack down on political invitees. The CS also reiterated that the evictees will receive no penny as compensation saying no one should be rewarded for engaging in an illegality. On his part, Kajiado Governor Lenku echoed Tunai's sentiments and hailed Environment CS Keriako Tobiko on efforts of Mau restoration. The Maa legislators led by Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina and area MP Moitalel ole Kenta asked the government not to relent in evicting the over 40,000 settlers in the looming phase two of the evictions. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 "We expect nothing less than eviction of all the illegal settlers from the Maasai Mau. No amount of sideshows such as the recent clashes should slow down the Mau restoration efforts," said Senator Ledama. He said the continued destruction of the Mau ecosystem was a threat to the tourism in the world-famous Masai Mara game reserve. The Senator said Mara River is on its deathbed adding that he recently planted over 5,000 acres with about 20Million seeds through aerial seeding. ALSO READ:

Are security chiefs and politicians neutral in Mau forest evictions? Tanzanian Opposition leader Edward Lowassa also condemned the recent ethnic clashes in Narok. The former PM asked Maasai leaders to be in the forefront in preaching peace and unity. He also hailed the departed Maa leader for his spirited effort of uniting the Maa community both in Kenya and Tanzania. "Ntimama was a unifying factor worth emulation by all leaders," said Lowassa. Interior CAS Patrick Ntutu warned politicians fanning violence saying the government is investigating the culprits. "The government has deployed enough personnel both in Narok and Nakuru. No life should be lost in ethnic violence, "warned Ntutu. Leaders present during the event include MPs Elijah Memusi (Kajiado), David Sankok (nominated), Johana Ng'eno (Emurua Dikir), Peris Tobiko (Kajiado East) and Esther Passaris (Nairobi Woman Rep).