Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has suspended four county government officials over the Pumwani Hospital incident, where he made an impromptu visit to the facility and found babies stashed in nylon bags. He has suspended the officials over insubordination, on grounds that they issued contradictory statement on the incident. ALSO READ:

Facts about Pumwani maternity hospital They include County Secretary Peter Kariuki, Health CEC Vesca Kangogo, Officer of Health Services Mahat Jimale and County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka. He has immediately appointed other officials replacing them on acting capacity as the blame game in one of Kenya’s largest and oldest maternity homes drag. Those appointed are Pauline Kahiga acting as the County Secretary, Charles Kerich  acting CEM health, Mohamed Saleh as Chief Officer Health Services and David Aseko who is currently legal affairs director as acting County attorney. Jimale is said to have stated that some of the babies may have died out of regular health operations, and that they were stillbirths. This is statement that contradicts Governor Sonko’s view of the circumstances in which the babies may have died. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. A statement from City Hall reads: “After exhaustive discussions with the County Executive Committee Members and Senior County Officials, and in view of the unanimous resolution on how to handle the issue, H.E the Governor has noted with concern the contradictory statements and actions by a section of senior officials of Nairobi City County Government.” This also comes after Sonko promised a string of actions against the management of Pumwani Hospital shortly after Monday incident. He suspended hospital’s Superintendent Dr. Catherine Mutinda, administrator Zaddock Angahya and Dr. James Kamau. Kamau was by then the obstetrician and gynecologist serving on that day. ALSO READ:

Bodaboda riding Sonko fires Pumwani hospital board This seemed not enough. He however has moved ahead to axe the three just hours after announcing their suspension. His statement signed by Press Service Director Elkana Jacob further reads: “The Cabinet also resolved to interdict both the Medical Superintendent, her Deputy , the Hospital’s Administrator and the Doctor on Duty who had not reported to office.’’