Our phones have become the ultimate Swiss army knife for our day-to-day lives. They are not just a communication device, but also a computer, book, wallet, TV, calculator, mirror, alarm clock, calendar, camera, newspaper and identification tag. All aspects of our lives have succumbed in one way or another to the utility these gadgets provide. ALSO READ:

Itel joins league of affordable phones Phones are not islands though, and as useful as they are on their own, they still have to be tethered to a network of some sort. Maximum utility on the go is provided by linking phones to GSM providers for both voice and data. On the security front, this kind of tethering poses some challenges in that you now have a third party in the relationship between you and the phone, and that third party also has access to your information. This was not a problem in the earlier years of mobile tech because all that was being passed through the networks was voice and short texts. But these days, our devices are transmitting all sorts of sensitive information, from bank accounts to mobile money PINs. Granted, any telco worth its salt appreciates this and has put measures in place to keep outsiders from getting to our data. Unfortunately, there’s no such thing as perfect security. Cases of data breaches are common, and as you would imagine, the potential damage can be catastrophic. Sensitive request Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. One particular vulnerability that has gained popularity with hackers is SIM card fraud. This is basically an attack that essentially dupes your telco into swapping your line of communication to a different SIM card that the hackers have in their possession. This allows a culprit to take over your phone line. Every time you call your GSM provider with any sensitive request, they’ll ask you for some personal data that helps them identify you as the true owner of the line. This is where hackers come in. Armed with personal information on you, a fraudster has the ability to request a SIM change. ALSO READ:

Police officers facing arrest over laptops theft With this access, they can then reset some of your profile information, including your mobile bank account PIN, to their benefit. Some go as far as calling your friends and relatives to solicit money in a variety of ways – including claiming you’ve been hospitalised. Considering the potential harm SIM card swap fraud can cause, it is important to avoid falling prey to it. First, always be careful about the information you share with people – from acquaintances to your friends and even, in some cases, family. Another place we freely give information without a second thought is when we’re entering buildings. We give up plenty of personal data that’s easily accessible to hackers – so weigh the risks. Lastly, the information you share on social media can also be used by hackers, so be careful about how much you share with your digital family.