Painters paints to change colours affiliated to Jubilee Party back to Party of National Unity (PNU) after the party officials reacquired the offices previously occupied by Jubilee party.  [David Njaaga,Standard] Party of National Unity officials have repossessed an office block in Nairobi that had been branded with Jubilee Party colours. ALSO READ:

Ruto: There are no divisions in Jubilee Youths in branded PNU caps removed furniture from the one-storey building along Musa Gitau Road, just before Kangemi, while another group removed the ruling party’s colours from the walls. Led by PNU Secretary General John Okemwa Anunda, the leaders said they had reclaimed the party headquarters from “unauthorised people”. Backed by security personnel and court orders, the officials said the former residents of the building were not welcome anymore. “When we came here today we found people operating under the name of Gema and not Jubilee. We again asked them to identify themselves but the lady we found here told us to talk to Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju,” said Mr Anunda. “Tunataka kuambia Tuju akae kwake, hapa si kwake (We want to tell Tuju to stay away, this is not his property),” said Anunda Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. A man who introduced himself as a Jubilee Party lawyer demanded that the PNU officials stop the eviction, but they defied him. The youths removed everything in the house and placed the items near the entrance to the compound PNU Chairman Paul Lukaria said: “This is evidence of impunity and we are helping President Uhuru Kenyatta to thrash it.” ALSO READ:

Ruto: Jubilee shaky? We are stronger The property has been at the centre of an ownership dispute for the past five years. Muthangari Deputy OCS Peterson Kunda said his team was present only to enforce the court orders and maintain calm. Court orders The building, which was repainted in Jubilee colours in November 2016, formerly hosted PNU offices. It was handed over to Jubilee after PNU, on whose ticket President Kibaki ran for re-election in 2007, declared support for President Kenyatta ahead of last year’s General Election.  ALSO READ:

Jubilee on the rocks