Deputy President William Ruto address Kegonga residents in Kuria East Sub-County Migori County during the opening of Constituency Development Fund Office.[Photo: Caleb Kingwara/Standard] Leaders are warming up to a planned visit by Deputy President William Ruto. ALSO READ:

Ruto downplays Nyanza forays Mr Ruto is expected to preside over a funds drive at a Catholic church in Kisumu town this weekend and a committee has already been formed to co-ordinate the event. Yesterday, Citizen Convention Party (CCP) leader Grace Akumu and the Luo Council of Elders asked Ruto to feel free to visit the people of Nyanza. "We want to tell the Deputy President, in the spirit of national unity, reconciliation and harmony, that he is welcome to visit this region for a development cause," said Ms Akumu amid intense preparations by the Milimani Catholic parish. The fundraiser on Sunday is in aid of building a priest's house. The Standard has established that a number of Nyanza leaders have been invited to the fete, including Governor Anyang' Nyong'o. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Former MPs Nearly all current and former MPs have also been invited to the fundraiser, which is expected to serve as a bridge to unity. Akumu said Kenyans should learn to tolerate and forgive each other for the common good. ALSO READ:

China denies role in Africa debt woes "Even if in the past we differed, it is important for us to reconcile our difference and show respect," she said, adding that it was only through forgiveness that the residents of Kisumu would be able to let go of their political grievances and judgement, and allow themselves to heal. Thomas Achando led the elders in supporting the call for unity and love, saying it demonstrated the Christian values and leadership ethics that everyone desired. "Holding onto past differences makes us sick. Let us shun anger and ego and embrace all. Let us build tabernacles," he said. "You only need one person to forgive you. Sometimes you don’t even need the offender. Let us reconcile our differences for the greater good of society." 