The fiancé of TV journalist Jacque Maribe, Joseph Kuria Irungu, popularly known as Jowie, has been arrested in connection with the murder of Ms Monica Kimani in Kilimani. He was arrested as police could not corroborate his claim of being shot in the shoulder at Langata which he reported at Lang'ata Police Station. 28-year-old Monica Kimani was found dead in the apartment the same day she got back from South Sudan. Her brother found her lifeless body in the bath tub with her throat slit. Irungu had reported the incident at Langata Police Station on September 21, stating he had been attacked and shot on the left side of the chest. He told police he had arrived at the Royal Park Estate last week on Friday morning to drop off the journalist when he noticed three men standing at the entrance. He had earlier on picked Maribe from a a nightspot in Kilimani and driven her to her residence. After arriving at the house, the man drove back to the gate to check what was happening with the strangers hanging around. Irungu told police when he tried to establish what their mission was, one of them shot him on the left side of his chest. The bullet exited at  the back and the attackers escaped on a motorbike. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Irungu is apparently a licensed gun holder but it is not clear if he was armed then. He then went back to the house and told the woman what had happened. The woman told police she drove him to Nairobi West Hospital where he was attended to and left to go home. Irungu was driven back to Langata Hospital where he was admitted on Friday afternoon until Monday evening when he was discharged. Police say preliminary findings show no shooting was reported at the scene. Detectives tell Standard Digital they have interrogated the woman.  “We have not established the motive of the shooting. No spent cartridge was recovered at the scene but the probe is ongoing,” said an officer conversant with the incident. The officers added they were waiting for a medical report from the hospital to establish the nature of the wound on the man. A team of officers from Langata Police division visited Irungu at the house on Tuesday to take his statement as part of the probe.