The scenic but volatile Kerio Valley evokes memories of deadly livestock raids that have left hundreds dead and property worth millions of shillings destroyed. The Government has, several times, conducted disarmament exercises to mop up thousands of illegal guns used by cattle rustlers to unleash mayhem on innocent residents. ALSO READ:

How new police uniform was arrived at The strategy has, however, failed to eradicate firearms held in the wrong hands. But a new initiative to combat banditry, mooted by Marakwet and Pokot (Mapo) police officers from the warring communities, is steadily bringing hope to the locals. Former raiders are now embracing alternative livelihoods as they quit the archaic and deadly livestock raids. The reformed rustlers are now enthusiastic farmers and peace crusaders, with their activities getting the attention of Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet. Mr Boinnet, who visited the area on Saturday, donated 20 motorcycles to be used in outreach and responding to emergencies. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 It was a sight to behold as the IG led the former warriors, who were used to handling guns, in cutting and stacking maize ready for harvesting on their 70-acre Sindar farm. The police boss said peace could not be imposed on residents, and that communities had to agree to live harmoniously. “Unlike other peace forums and initiatives we had before, this is among the outstanding projects that has reduced insecurity in the region. We shall continue to support such initiatives and ensure peace and development is achieved.” ALSO READ:

Uhuru's police reforms unconstitutional- Omtatah The rustlers’ reintegration into society entailed introducing them to agricultural activities, among other economic ventures, to dissuade them from attacking the neighbours. “As police officers, we get disturbed by incessant raids and killings among our different communities. Past disarmament drives have failed to yield fruits since the guns have never gone silent and the raids were getting deadlier and more sophisticated each passing day. That is why we decided to employ a new strategy to end the blood-letting,” said Laxamana Kiptoo, the Mapo chairman. Mr Kiptoo said because criminals were known in their communities, the police decided to engage them and find out what motivated them to continue with their criminal acts. “After several weeks of interactions with raiders hiding in the bushes, which would occasionally run late into the night, we discovered there was a glaring disconnect between the attackers and government agencies. It was an us-against-them scenario,” said Kiptoo. The raiders told the officers to help them get alternative ways to earn a living in order to end the bloodletting. The introduction of crop farming on the battle fields proved a viable option. Three months after the Mapo team rolled up their sleeves and got to work, the guns have gone silent and families that had fled their homes are back. Schools that were shut are now open and abandoned shopping centres are recording brisk business. “Where the raiders used as a battle field is now a thriving farm with an assortment of food crops. The raiders agreed to start a joint farming venture along the boundary of the two warring communities to ensure there was cohesion,” said Kiptoo. ALSO READ:

County yet to procure Hepatitis B vaccines as residents suffer Loriono Achali, who used to lead rustlers, said there was no benefit in fighting, only death and destruction. “To end banditry and cattle rustling, the next generation has to get education and be socialised into the changing world. We have resolved to take our children to school to ensure they do not follow what we used to do,” said Mr Achali. Lonyamlele Nabenti, also a reformed bandit leader, said since they embraced farming, life had changed for the better. “We now live and sleep in houses and even have decent meals. Peace is everything and we shall continue to expand the farm and replicate it across the region where insecurity is still rampant,” said Mr Nabenti.