Cabinet Secretary for East African Community and Regional Development Adan Mohammed (centre) address journalists jointly with with the Parliamentary select committee on Regional Integration chairman Naisu;a Lesuuda (right) and her committee members when they met in Mombasa where they discussed emerging issues and concerns hampering promotion of Kenya's progressive interests in the East African Community, Sept 05, 2018. [PHOTO:GIDEON MAUNDU/STANDARD]. East African Community and Regional Development Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohammed has said the five countries that make up the regional bloc are committed to full integration. ALSO READ:

Mombasa to host 2018 Soya awards Speaking in Mombasa on Wednesday, Mr Mohammed said the five member states were working to remove obstacles to full integration. "A key part of our ongoing deliberations is how to have legislators working towards supporting the integration process," he said on the sidelines of a meeting convened by the Parliamentary Select Committee on regional integration. "I will not pay much attention to teething problems facing the integration. We are working well with all member states." Country's exports Mohammed said the East African Community (EAC) was important for Kenya because it absorbed up to 25 per cent of the country's exports. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. "I wish to stress that as a country we are committed to EAC. We want to make sure that previous work and achievements in the integration processes benefit all." The CS said the integration targeted a border-less EAC. "Going forward, we aspire for a political federation." ALSO READ:

DPP seeks papers from NLC on grabbed Railway land The House committee called for measures to ensure that the country remained competitive in trade even after integration. “Regional integration has some bearing on our country but we are going to come up with measures to ensure that no country overtakes us in trade while at the same time protecting foreign investors," said Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuuda. 