 Migori Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo and her Homa Bay counterpart Gladys Wanga are linking the killing of Rongo University student Sharon Otieno to senior politicians in Migori. ALSO READ:

Abducted student Sharon Otieno found dead in forest In a joint statement, the Woman Reps on Wednesday called for the questioning of the politicians. Sharon's body was discovered in a forest in Homa Bay two days after she was abducted together with a Nation journalist Barack Oduor. The journalist was pursuing a love affair story involving a top politician in the area. According to the journalist, they were lured into a car by the personal assistant of Migori Governor by the name Nicholas Oyamo. Oyamo has since been arrested at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport Nairobi while accompanying Governor Okoth Obado to Kigali, Rwanda. The MPs asked the Government to ensure the family of the deceased gets justice. Sharon, a second-year medical statistics student, was seven months pregnant. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. "This should be the true test of DCI. Whether it's a governor or an MP involved, nobody should be spared," Ms Wanga said. The leaders described the incident as heinous, barbaric and cowardly, stating that life is sacred and should not be taken away at will. "We demand respect for lives and justice should be done to the family," said Dr Odhiambo. They urged girls in secondary schools, colleges and universities to shun 'sponsors' (sugar daddies). Oduor has told of how he escaped by jumping out their abductors' moving vehicle and sustained injuries The Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti has since dispatched a special team of detectives to Migori and Homa Bay counties to investigate the killing. Kinoti said key statements have been taken from some of the witnesses, including the journalist before arrests can be made. Government Spokesman Eric Kiraithe also condemned the killing and termed the abduction of the journalist an attempted murder. "As we mourn this untimely death, we take this opportunity to assure the public and the media fraternity, in particular, this matter will be expeditiously investigated and the perpetrators of this heinous crime will be made to face the full force of the law," he said.