Mountain Slopes Commercial Services Managing Director shows a bottle of Kingmaster special opaque beer to Embu Trade Executive David Kariuki who officially opened the brewer on Tuesday. The County Government has directed all alcohol manufacturers to set up depots in the area if they want to run liquor business in the county.  [Joseph Muchiri, Standard] All alcohol manufacturers will be required to set up depots in the area if they want to run a liquor business, the Embu County government has directed. ALSO READ:

Kiraitu government to hire scouts to monitor hospital operations The trade executive, David Kariuki, said this would ensure that bar owners only stocked safe alcohol. He added that this would allow easy traceability of any liquor that may have harmful effects on consumers. He said the County Alcoholic Drinks and Control Act required brewers to open up depots in the county prior to their licensing. He warned those contravening it that they would face hefty fines. “Having a depot would facilitate liquor manufacturers' traceability if anything happens to consumers. We urge bar owners to be self-regulating by avoiding buying beer from hawkers and those without depots,” Mr Kariuki said when he officially opened the Mountain Slopes Commercial Services beer plant in Runyenjes constituency. The brewer, which manufactures Kingmaster Special Opaque Beer, has not been in operation for two years after failing to get a county trade permit. Kariuki lauded the brewer for relocating from Nairobi and setting up camp in Embu, where it was expected to create jobs for residents, help grow the county’s economy through revenue collection and provide a safe and affordable alternative for consumers of illicit brews. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. He emphasised the need for fair trade and urged big operators to be mindful of start-ups and small businesses. Value addition “The county government has provided a conducive environment for all types of businesses. We are encouraging industries, and especially those in value addition, to set up camp in Embu,” he said. ALSO READ:

How Nairobi can emulate Addis Ababa in waste management The brewery's managing director, Samuel Muriuki, urged locals and leaders not to allow politics to interfere with development. He said the plant was closed although it had been approved by the Kenya Bureau of Standards, the Kenya Revenue Authority, the Public Health Department, the National Authority for the Campaign against Drug Abuse and the National Environment Management Authority. “The company plans to roll out several corporate social responsibility programmes such as tree planting, responsible drinking campaigns and helping the needy and vulnerable,” said Mr Muriuki. Community leaders Taratisio Kawe and John Njiru urged Embu residents to support local industries. Runyenjes Central MCA Steve Simba complained that the brewery would promote alcoholism. Two weeks ago, Governor Martin Wambora visited the plant and declared his support for it, saying it would boost the region’s economic growth.