  At least 80 people from a village in Trans-Nzoia County were over the weekend hospitalised after consuming contaminated meat. The victims from Umoja village in Kwanza Sub-County were rushed to hospital after eating meat from a neighbour's cow. The villager reportedly slaughtered the cow and sold the meat to unsuspecting villagers at between Sh20 and Sh50 a piece. The neighbor, Peter Chirchir allegedly lied to them that he slaughtered the cow after it developed walking difficulties due to a broken leg. “I bought the meat and asked my wife to cook it for supper but at night I started developing stomach complication before experiencing diarrhoea and vomiting,” Justus Nyongesa told journalists at Kwanza sub-county where he is admitted along with four members of his family. He said he bought the meat after the owner of the cow assured them that the animal was not sick. Another victim, Evelyn Wafula was admitted at the facility with her six children. She said she cooked the meat for her family after it was brought home by her husband. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 ‘My husband brought home the meat and I cooked it well but at night I started feeling severe pains in the stomach before experiencing diarrhoea and vomit. We did not know the meat was contaminated,” said Mrs. Wafula. County Medical superintendent Dr Anthony Mugo confirmed that 80 people were hospitalised following the incident. He said that 60 of the affected victims were treated and discharged while 20 are still admitted and are on medication. “It is true we had 80 people suffering from diarrhea and vomiting after consuming the contaminated meat. We have discharged 60 and still observing the remaining 20,” Dr Mugo told reporters. He said that five serious cases have been transferred to the County referral hospital for specialized treatment. Area member of the County Assembly Mr. Emmanuel Waswa warned residents against eating uninspected meat. “Do not risk you lives because of poverty. It is dangerous to consume uninspected meat,” Waswa advised.