 Bombing raids during the Second World War were so intense that they sent shockwaves all the way to the edge of space, a new study has revealed. Researchers from the University of Reading have revealed that the shockwaves were big enough to weaken an area of the upper atmosphere, called the ionosphere, 1,000km above the UK. Professor Chris Scott, an author of the study, said: “The images of neighbourhoods across Europe reduced to rubble due to wartime air raids are a lasting reminder of the destruction that can be caused by man-made explosions. “But the impact of these bombs way up in the Earth's atmosphere has never been realised until now. "It is astonishing to see how the ripples caused by man-made explosions can affect the edge of space. Each raid released the energy of at least 300 lightning strikes. “The sheer power involved has allowed us to quantify how events on the Earth's surface can also affect the ionosphere." Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. In the study, published in Annales Geophysicae, the researchers looked at records from the Radio Research Centre in Slough collected between 1943-1945. Their analysis revealed that around the time of 152 large Allied air raids in Europe, there was a decrease in the electron concentration of the ionosphere. Professor Patrick Major, co-author of the study, said: "Aircrew involved in the raids reported having their aircraft damaged by the bomb shockwaves, despite being above the recommended height. “Residents under the bombs would routinely recall being thrown through the air by the pressure waves of air mines exploding, and window casements and doors would be blown off their hinges. “There were even rumours that wrapping wet towels around the face might save those in shelters from having their lungs collapsed by blast waves, which would leave victims otherwise externally untouched." "The unprecedented power of these attacks has proved useful for scientists to gauge the impact such events can have hundreds of kilometres above the Earth, in addition to the devastation they caused on the ground."