  Two people were on Saturday morning killed when the vehicle they were travelling in veered off the road and rolled down the steep Elgeyo escarpment along Iten-Kabaranet road. Five others sustained serious injuries and are receiving treatment in hospital at Iten county referral hospital and Eldoret Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. ALSO READ:

Former world champion Nicholas Bett is dead The occupants of the ill-fated Toyota Probox were travelling from Tinderet, Nandi County to Kabartonjo, Baringo County for a funeral at the time of the incident. The vehicle rolled for several metres down the rugged terrain at a popular point where tourists stop to have a panoramic view of escarpment at the famous Kolool viewpoint. Area assistant Chief John Letio said locals rushed to the scene after they heard the vehicle rolling at around 7 am incident. “The vehicle had stopped briefly at the view point and the occupants took a view of the Kerio Valley. Moments later they boarded the vehicle to proceed with their journey and the driver reversed,” Letio said. The administrator said the driver might have underestimated the distance while reversing and dangerously driven the vehicle too close to the cliff. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “At least five fatal accidents have happened on the black spot in recent months and drivers to be careful when driving the road. Mr Letio said the locals removed five survivors and the two bodies out of the wreckage. Elgeyo Marakwet Health executive Kiprono Chepkok said the injured were rushed to Iten County Referral Hospital. ALSO READ:

Residents in landslide regions to be evicted Chepkok said three out of the five victims have been referred to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital for specialist treatment. “The injured who sustained spinal and neck injuries have been referred to MTRH. Two are still receiving treatment at Iten County Referral Hospital and we are still monitoring their progress,” Chepkok said. Former Nandi Deputy Governor Dominic Biwott who rushed to the scene after receiving distress calls urged the Kenya National Highways Authority to erect guardrails on the sharp bent to reduce accidents. Biwott thanked villagers for assisting the injured travelers and brought them to the road for easy evacuation to Iten County Referral hospital. 