Last week's murder of a civilian peace committee member in Mombasa has sparked uproar from rights groups and politicians. The groups are now demanding arrest and prosecution of a gang suspected to have hacked Mohamed Mwatsau to death as he left a mosque on Friday. ALSO READ:

Polo: Governors Camp beat Ultimate Security 6-2.5 to book semifinals berth The state of anxiety was heightened when an unnamed male youth was killed by machete-wielding youth at Maweni in Nyali. Last week, the gang is also suspected to have killed a woman and a man, and injured two men in a brazen broad daylight attack in Mwandoni and Vikwatani in Kisauni. Haki Africa rights group, Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Shariff Nassir have appealed to the national Government to intervene. When contacted for comment, Mombasa police county commander Johnson Ipara said: "He was killed by four assailants while seated outside his house in an area called Bethsheba". Mr Ipara denied that the killings had increased, but added that a 20-year-old man was killed by a mob on Saturday, in Maweni. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. However, Mr Ipara accused rights groups of fostering hatred against the police after Haki Africa criticised security officers for allegedly killing three young men in Kisauni last weekend. Mombasa County Commissioner Evans Achoki acknowledged the Friday’s killing of Mwatsau but denied gang-related murders are on the rise in Nyali and Kisauni. He said Mwatsau's killing was “under investigation” and denied accusations that the State was not tackling gang violence. ALSO READ:

Lamu gets more flights from Mombasa Haki Africa and local leaders yesterday said they were opposed to all unlawful killings and demanded that suspected youth be arrested and subjected to due process. Mwatsahu died in hospital moments after being admitted with serious injuries. “We condemn the killing of Mr Mwatsau, as he was coming from prayers,” said Faki, who described the murder as a blow against peace and the war on insecurity. The senator demanded action from the police, including the prosecution of Mwatsau’s killers. “Days before his murder, he had been beaten and said his life was in danger, and we expected the police to have enhanced his security,” said Faki. The Mvita MP said he was outraged by Friday’s murder and asked the State to demonstrate commitment to end insecurity in Mombasa. “We need to begin seeing some form of action against insecurity,” said the MP, noting it was incomprehensible for huge swathes of the county to come under control of armed gangs. ALSO READ:

Witness: My life is in danger Haki Africa’s Executive Director Hussein Khalid warned that armed youth appeared to be on a killing spree without fear of State agencies. “These youths have decided that crime and murder is the only thing they will engaged in, and we appeal to the State to address this matter before it gets out of hand,” said Mr Khalid. Meanwhile, Haki Africa said the police reforms announced by President Kenyatta last week should not be implemented in a hurry. They were, particularly, concerned with proposals to allow police officers to reside in civilian neighbourhoods. 