A bodyguard to Migori Governor Okoth Obado has been detained in connection with Rongo University student Sharon Otieno. Calvins Omondi was arrested when he escorted Caspar Obiero, a personal assistant to the governor, to the Oyugis police station on Tuesday afternoon. ALSO READ:

Police question one more Obado aide over Sharon Otieno's murder 10 more days The two were yesterday arraigned before a Kisii court but were not allowed to plead to any charge after police successfully applied to hold them for 10 more days. Mr Omondi is the fifth and latest suspect held over the murder of university student Sharon Otieno. On Tuesday, Mr Obiero was detained after police impounded a car associated with him, and which is said to have been used to kidnap Sharon and Nation journalist Barack Oduor from Rongo town. The student's body was later found near a forest in Oyugis. She was seven months pregnant at the time of her killing. Vehicle driver Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Jack Gombe, the driver of the vehicle - a dark Toyota Fielder - was arrested on Monday and arraigned in Oyugis. He will also be detained for 10 days to allow police to complete investigations. Suspects in police custody over Sharon's killing include Obado's other personal assistant Michael Oyamo. He was the first to be arrested. Also being detained is Lawrence Mula, a former MCA for Kanyadoto ward in Homa Bay. ALSO READ:

Police: We've found car used in Sharon's kidnap Mr Obado has confirmed that he had a relationship with Sharon and that he was planning to buy her a property. Sources within the Directorate of Criminal Investigations told The Standard the many arrests were an indication the suspects in custody were cooperating with the police. Prime suspects "At this rate, we are going to arrest the prime suspects who actually killed Sharon. The suspects are talking. They are naming possible accomplices to the kidnap and murder," said an officer. Yesterday, Omondi and Obiero appeared before Kisii Senior Principal Magistrate Nathan Lutta, who ordered that they be held at the Keroka police station in order to allow the detectives investigating the kidnap and murder of Sharon to conclude their work. Mr Lutta ruled that the court, having considered the complexity of the matter, had allowed the detention of the two for 10 days, with the case set for mentioning on September 28. “The two respondents should be allowed access to their advocates and medical care when needed during the 10 days they will be held in custody, before they next appear before this court,” Lutta ruled. ALSO READ:

Women predators must be stopped The prosecution had requested the court to hold the two for 10 days since they were attached to the governor’s security and might interfere with investigations into the crime, in which they have been adversely mentioned by several suspects. The prosecution further told the court the two had crucial leads on Sharon's murder and that they might be a flight risk. “This case could not be filed at the Migori law courts due to security concerns. The prosecution, therefore, requests that the two be detained at the Keroka police station or any other police station that the court may deem fit,” prosecution told the court. Lawyer Omunde Kisera, representing the two, opposed the application by the prosecution to have them held for 10 days, saying that was an infringement on their fundamental rights and that it was intended to circumvent the 24 hours rule on presenting suspects in court. Mr Kisera told the court his clients had been summoned and voluntarily went to Migori police station, and that they were ready to cooperate with the detectives. “My clients have some medical conditions, which makes detaining them for 10 days untenable, given that they have not been charged with any offence. The court should allow them to be held for three days, at most,” Kisera told the court. The advocate told the court the State had not given compelling reasons for holding the two, other than the fact that the vehicle alleged to have been used in the kidnap and subsequent murder of Sharon belonged to Obiero’s family. Car in custody Kisera said the vehicle's driver had been arrested. He said the car was also in police custody, hence no need for his clients to be held for long. The lawyer said the suspects were law abiding citizens ready to cooperate with investigators. ALSO READ:

Sharon's family disowns husband Obiero and Omondi, who appeared relaxed, had initially been taken to Oyugis before they were transferred to Kisii. Obiero, at one point, asked journalists whether they had taken enough photos outside the Kisii law courts.