 Who doesn’t love avocados? The green fruit is rich in nutrients which are not only good for eating but also for beauty purposes. This explains why many beauty products in the market have avocado and its extracts as an ingredient. You will find avocado listed in many types of creams, masks, moisturisers, and even sunscreens. ALSO READ:

Oatmeal beauty goodness Here are some of the reasons why you need to incorporate avocados into your beauty care ASAP: 1. Moisturising
Actress Lupita Nyong’o says she regularly uses avocado oil to keep her skin and hair moisturised. Going by the fact that her skin always has a beautiful glow, we have to say that it works! Avocados contain Vitamin E which is a popular and a powerful moisturising agent. Avocados are also packed with healthy fats such as oleic acid. While coconut oil, which is a great moisturiser has 5 to 10 per cent oleic acid, avocado oil as much as 63 per cent oleic acid. Follow Lupita’s footsteps and get avocado oil to keep your skin and hair moisturised. You can also make a moisturising avocado and honey mask at home. 2. Anti-aging agent
Fine lines and wrinkles are usually the first sign of aging. Avocados can help not only in delaying the aging process. The antioxidants in avocado such as Vitamin C and E fight free radicals responsible for damaging skin. Chemicals contained in avocado oil also stimulate the production of collagen and elastin fibres to maintain structure and elasticity of skin. Oleic acid in avocado can also penetrate deeper layers of the skin to moisturise it and keep wrinkles at bay. 3. Sun protection
Constantly exposed to the sun, the skin suffers damage from ultraviolet rays which leads to premature aging and can even cause melanoma (skin cancer). Research has shown that polyhydroxylated fatty alcohols, a kind of fat found in avocados can prevent and reduce this radiation-induced damage. Applying avocado oil or an avocado mask after sun exposure will heal the skin and protect it from long term damage.
Moreover, vitamins C and E present in avocado also protect the skin against UV damage, with Vitamin C fighting UVA damage and Vitamin E fighting the DNA-altering UVB rays. Avocado also contains an enzyme known as glutathione which helps get rid of unwanted sun tan. However, this doesn’t mean you can use avocado oil as a substitute for sunscreen. You still have to wear sunscreen when going out in the sun. 4. Acne and pimples
Afflicted with acne? Pimples causing you distress? Applying avocado oil or pulp to your skin could do the trick. A study found that a cream with avocado extracts significantly reduced the number of papules and pustules in people with acne. The avocado extract inhibited the production of an enzyme involved in making skin excessively oily and prone to acne. Linoleic acid, also found in avocados, helps prevent acne. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. 5. Treating dandruff
Dandruff can be an annoying and embarrassing beauty woe. If the root of the problem is a dry scalp, avocado can help. Avocado oil penetrates deep into the scalp to moisturise it and prevent dandruff. Avocado oil also helps stimulate blood flow in your scalp and unclog hair follicles. 6. Heals wounds
If you’re a believer in homeopathic remedies, you’ll be delighted to know that avocado oils can help wounds heal faster. A 2013 study found the essential fatty acids and oleic acid in avocado can promote collagen production to repair and regenerate damaged tissue. ALSO READ:

11 beauties to battle it out for Miss Tourism crown