Buildings form attractions for many cities. What comes to mind when you think of travel and tourism? For many, it is a game drive, the beach and posh hotels. Admittedly, these are the low-lying fruits in this sector. And then there is architecture. This could be unique buildings, new and old, or centres of historical significance. Nowhere does this ring truer than in Maputo, Mozambique. On a tour of the city recently, our tour van pulled to a stop outside a house that would pass for a water tank. It was a warm day, the light breeze bringing the smell of the nearby ocean. We were not the only ones here as other people stood in front of the building taking pictures. Locals passing by are unbothered; tourists jostling for a good shot is a regular occurrence. The building in question is The Iron House. The structure, known in Portuguese, the official language here, as Casa de Ferro, is one of the city’s tourist attractions. It is a prefabricated house made entirely of iron. Its history dovetails with that of the country. It was imported from Belgium in 1892. Initially intended as the residence of the governor general, The Iron House proved too hot to live in in the coastal climate. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. The materials used in its construction are not the only attraction, the unique structure was designed by Alexandre Gustave Eiffel, the engineer behind Paris’ Eiffel Tower and the Statue of Liberty in New York. The Iron House is not the only architectural piece that has become a core part of the city’s tourism circuit. Maputo is known for its unique architecture. It is a unique blend of the old and the new, think Mombasa meets Nairobi. Its buildings bear significant influences of colonial Portuguese styles and a sprinkling of brutalist architecture. Take, for instance, the Maputo Railway Station. Built in 1910, it is regarded as one of the most beautiful railway termini. Its imposing columns and grand domes are another key fixture in the city’s attractions. It is an imposing structure designed by an associate of Alexandre Gustav Eiffel. But it is not all old. The Maputo Katembe bridge is considered Africa’s longest suspension bridge. While Maputo, and many other cities, lean heavily on historical buildings in tourism, others like Dubai go for the shock and awe of modern architecture. In this, Burj Khalifa (the world’s tallest building) and Burj al Arab – a luxury hotel built like the sail of a dhow - lead from the front.   