Supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta's slashing of  VAT on petroleum products  from 16 to 8 percent: ODM Leader Raila Odinga flanked by party members. [David Gichuru/Standard] The ODM chunk of the National Super Alliance has supported the proposal by President Uhuru Kenyatta to slash VAT on petroleum products  from 16  to 8 per cent. ALSO READ:

Kenyans to continue grappling with high fuel prices The decision was reached at after an ODM parliamentary group meeting at Orange House, Nairobi, chaired by party leader Raila Odinga. It now awaits its support on the floor of the house this afternoon when Members of Parliament meet debate on whether to shoot the President’s proposal down or pass it. However, the support by the opposition comes with the condition that it will only support the  president's position for a year. “We feel the need to address the suffering of the people while also ensuring development is delivered,” said National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohammed. NASA has urged government to recover money from the proceeds of corruption  besides taming its penchant for starting projects some of which end up stalling. The support also comes with its fair share of warning. “If nothing is done on our proposals, we will move a motion in the next budget to scrap VAT on petroleum products entirely,” it said. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 This morning, 190 members of the Jubilee Party and its affiliates also met at State House, Nairobi, as parliamentary group. Speaking to a local TV Station,Nominated MP Starehe MP Maina Kamanda was quoted saying that they too supported President Uhuru's take and five other areas that he has reservations on regarding the Finance Bill 2018. Parliament  has  a special sitting to debate on the contentious VAT on petroleum products this afternoon. ALSO READ:

Owner of Patel farm wants to leave the country again Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta sent the Finance Bill, 2018 back to the National Assembly with counter proposals including reducing the levy from 16 to 8 per cent. Until yesterday, MPs were broadly talking of rejecting the president's proposals. In year-long window, Junet said ODM  will push the government to: Here are some of the reactions from Kenyans on Twitter to ODM’s  support  of President Uhuru’s position on the fuel levy: