Five people linked to Njoro clashes were yesterday charged in a Nakuru court. Nakuru County Assembly Deputy Speaker Samuel Tonui, Nessuit Assistant Chief Joseph Ruto, Njoro CDF Chairperson William Kipkemboi, Christopher Samoei and Joshua Kipchumba faced charges of promoting war-like activities. ALSO READ:

State bans politicians from clash-torn Narok and Njoro The charge sheet indicated that the five, on diverse dates between September 11 and September 14, at Nessuit village in Njoro sub-county, instigated clashes between two communities. Tonui, Ruto, Kipkemboi, Samoei and Kipchumba, jointly with others not before court, are believed to have organised, funded and participated in perpetrating the offence. They appeared before Nakuru Principal Magistrate Liz Gicheha and denied the charges. The prosecution applied to have the five held at Nakuru Central police station to allow officers to conclude investigations. Police Constable Alex Muinde swore an affidavit in support of the application by the prosecution. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Defence lawyer Kipkoech Ng’etich opposed the application by the prosecution. Mr Ng’etich said prosecution had enough time to conclude investigation. He said his clients were arrested last Thursday and that police had more than enough time. “There are no reasons enough to warrant holding of the accused persons. It’s unconstitutional and abuse of criminal justice system,” said Ng’etich. ALSO READ:

Act on the clashes in Njoro and Mau before it's too late His clients, he informed the court, were arrested in a meeting and not in the bush, noting they were on a mission to cool down the clashes. He said holding someone for 14 days is a violation of his/her right. The lawyer said the police, in arresting and charging his clients, wanted to prove that they were taking action as they were under political pressure to be seen to be doing something. The case will be mentioned on Thursday to confirm whether investigations have been concluded. At least six people have been killed and hundreds displaced in three wards in the Njoro skirmishes. The Government last week imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew in clash-hit areas. ALSO READ:

Njoro clashes turn deadly as police arrest 11