  Scores of shoppers have been streaming into retailer Tusker Mattresses, otherwise known as Tusky outlets in the Port City of Mombasa as demands for customers seeking to make purchases in the ongoing Tuskys Gigantic sale grand finale festivities kicked off. Both Mombasa and Kisii town have been included in the gigantic sale offer following demands from clients. ALSO READ:

Tuskys gigantic sale surpasses retailer’s targets Responding to public demands, Tusker Mattresses management has confirmed the inclusion of Tuskys Bandari, Mombasa and Tuskys Echiro, Kisii as participating outlets commencing yesterday. According to Tusker Mattresses Group CEO Dan Githua, Kisii and Mombasa residents will also enjoy the ongoing customer reward scheme with up to 50% sales discounts. Alongside Kisii and Mombasa, the Sh400 million Tuskys Gigantic Sale Grand Finale is taking place in Nairobi, Kisumu, Eldoret and Juja. Participating stores which include Tuskys T-mall and Tuskys Greenspan in Nairobi, Tuskys United in Kisumu, Tuskys Juja and Tuskys Eldo Centre in Eldoret have been opening their doors at 6:30am to guarantee customer convenience. “Our customers in Kisii and Mombasa have spoken loudly and we are happy to announce that Tuskys Echiro and Tuskys Bandari are now part of the participating Tuskys Gigantic Sale Grand Finale branches,” Githua said. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. The Tuskys Gigantic Sale Grand Finale, Githua said has received a major boost from leading local and international suppliers who are providing quality electronics, furniture and related household goods for sale. During the Tuskys Gigantic Sale Grand Finale, the firm will be presenting 400 sofa sets, 800 dining table sets, 1000 entry level and 600 premium Television sets, 100 washing machines, 1500 microwaves, 500 Refrigerators and 400 cookers at up to 50% discounts. Suppliers providing retail products and brands such as Samsung, LG, Kabras Sugar, Menengai Soap Ohms, Luminarc, OSRAM, Moulinex, Regal, Tefal, Beko, Jikokoa, Redberry, Hotpoint, Ramtons, Kings Collection, Slumberland, Vitafoam, Dettol, Brookside, Dawaat, Mortein Doom, Rina cooking oil, Soko Ugali, Huggies, Kenchic, Harpic, Persil who have supported the Tuskys Gigantic Sale to a tune of more than Sh400 million in the last seven weeks. For the Tuskys Gigantic Sale Grand Finale, the participating stores, Githua said, have been prepared by creating more space and ensuring we have enough sales representatives to engage with shoppers. In the last 4, Tuskys has successfully carried in-store activations across the country, from Kisumu, Kakamega, Eldoret, Mombasa, Ngong, T-Mall, and Greenspan where customers were engaged on product information and demos. 