Wiper Democratic Movement Leader Hon. Kalonzo Musyoka and a battery of other Leaders attend the 3rd anniversary celebrations of Governor Mike Mbuvi Sonko’s late Father Gideon Kioko at his Mua farm, Machakos County today. The celebrations were preceded by a three-day free medical camp at Kathimani Primary School grounds. [Photo: John Muia/Standard] Wiper leaders have renewed their call on the opposition chief Raila Odinga to throw his weight in backing his co-principle and wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka for presidency in 2022. ALSO READ:

Bid to make maths, science attractive Speaking during an anniversary ceremony of the Nairobi governor’s late father Kioko Mbuvi at Mua hills in Machakos County, the leaders termed Kalonzo as a serial supporter of leaders from other communities saying his time was ripe for others to reach out to Kenyans and make a support of his candidacy to state house. Ben Momanyi, Borabu MP in Nyamira County described Kalonzo as a selfless leader who had sacrificed the presidential seat two times for Raila Odinga, 2013 and 2017 saying that Raila should not have any intentions of eyeing the seat come 2022. “Kalonzo supported Raila in 2013, and 2017, and I don’t want to hear that Raila is running for the seat again”, said Momanyi. His words were echoed by Kilome constituency MP Thadeus Nzambia who said that in 2022 they will go for nothing short-of Kalonzo clinching the top seat. His Kaiti constituency counterpart said it was their turn to “scoop” from the pot of the top Kenya’s leadership. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Governor Mike Mbuvi, elected under the Jubilee wagon in a twist declared his support for Kalonzo’s presidential bid. However he called on other Ukambani leaders to respect Kalonzo as their defacto leader and as the voice of the Kamba nation. “Not Sonko, not Mutua, not Ngilu but Kalonzo”, said Mbuvi. ALSO READ:

Raila weighs in on Sharon Otieno's killing The Wiper MPs present pledged their full support to the Nairobi governor against any threats of impeachment. When Kalonzo stood, he avoided addressing on the matter and rubbished claims that anyone can have a political debt saying as Wiper they will use all means to form the next government when President Uhuru Kenyatta’s term ends. “No one can have a political debt, and as Wiper we will all means to form the coming government”, said Kalonzo The function was attended by eight Wiper party MPs, one ODM MP Babu Owino, Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior, four women reps, and around 20 Nairobi MCas, among other leaders. By Stephen Nzioka and Erastus Mulwa