 Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has issued a statement affirming his support for the stance taken by National Super Alliance on the taxes to be levied on fuel products. ALSO READ:

Woman sues over Uhuru-Raila deal Kalonzo has stated that he is supporting the coalition’s decision to endorse a proposal by President Uhuru Kenyatta to reduce VAT on fuel from 16 to 8 percent. While addressing a press conference in Nairobi he called on Wiper Democratic Movement members to accord President Uhuru ‘unequivocal’ support especially on the reduction of VAT on fuel. He described this as a step towards supporting the handshake and building bridges initiative that brought the ruling Jubilee and NASA coalitions together. Beside this, Kalonzo has attributed Kenya's economic woes to the rampant corruption that has hit the government. “If President Uhuru Kenyatta blinks, then he would have lost even his own legacy. And I think so far he has shown no indication of blinking,” he said, while commending Uhuru’s efforts on fight against graft. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He has also challenged the government to fast-track the process of repossessing taxpayers’ money that were looted and stashed in foreign accounts, adding that Swiss and British governments have offered unwavering support. Kalonzo says that once such funds are repossessed, the government will not find it necessary to levy taxes on fuel. Although, he states that this will take time. His statement comes amidst division among the members of parliament on the proposed 8 percent tax on fuel. ALSO READ:

Uhuru cites Sh67.5 billion funding gap On Tuesday, NASA leader Raila Odinga chaired a parliamentary group meeting to marshal support for the bill. Part of their decision was that they will support the taxation for only one year. They similarly came with austerity measures and urged the government to fight graft and repossess stolen funds   