  She went to the police station to report that she had been raped but instead got raped again. That is the story that played out in Busia Law Courts on Friday after a police officer was arraigned in the case involving a 19 year old Form two student. ALSO READ:

Two die after drowning in a river James Kinyua, 28, stoically stood on the dock as the charges were read to him. He allegedly assaulted on the night of 23th and 24th August at Kotur Patrol Base in Amukura Teso South constituency. The victim had gone to report to Kotur police that she had been raped by a boda boda operator in the area before Mr Kinyua assaulted her sexually. The officer has been on the run since the day he allegedly committed the offense. Police investigators arrested in Kikuyu, Kiambu County on Thursday and brought to Kisumu in a government chemist where DNA samples were taken. The samples from the girl had earlier been taken. Kinyua pleaded not guilty before Senior Resident Magistrate Martha Nanzushi to two counties of rape and committing an indecent act with an adult. “On the night of of 23rd and 24th August 2018 at Kotur Patrol Base Amukura Division within Busia County you intentionally and unlawfully caused your penis to penetrate to vagina of Sarah Atyang a girl aged 19 years without her consent, “read the first charge. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The second count read,” On the 23rd and 24th August 2018 at Kotur Patrol Base Amukura Division within Busia County intentionally touched the vagina of the girl aged 19 years with his finger.” Kinyua was brought to court in the afternoon. Prosecutor Gacharia Muriithi sought for time to prepare adequately for the case. He further asked the court not to grant the suspect bail until next week on Monday. He further said Kinyua to be held at Adungosi police station and not in Kotur.  He will be brought back to court on September 3rd. ALSO READ:

Court revokes Nasewa deed, orders land return to State He will be served with an application of opposing bond before being given time to defend himself against the accusation. The court will later make determination on whether he will be granted bail or not.