 Nakuru Town East Member of Parliament David Gikaria's wife was on Friday arraigned in a Nakuru Court. Violet Nzisa was arrested by police officers acting on a warrant and taken to Nakuru Law Courts for claims he had disobeyed a court order to pay an accident victim. "These are to command you to arrest the said Violet Nzisa and unless she shall pay you sum of shillings 739, 721 as balance noted in the margin, officers expense and fees if any, to bring the said judgment debtor before the court with all convenient speed," read part of the warrant issued by the court and served to the OCS Central Police Station Nakuru. Nzisa on October 13, 2017 had been ordered by the Court to pay the victim Martha Onganga Sh738, 721 as damages caused to her in February 2016. She allegedly hit Onganga a police officer attached to Central Police Station in Nakuru. The officer at the time of the accident was a pillion passenger aboard a motorcycle. She sustained injuries and was admitted at Kijabe Hospital for five months. She was on her way to Kaptembwo Police Station when the accident occurred. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. In a suit she instituted against the MP's wife the officer prayed for compensation on general damages, future medical expenses and any other relief the court may deem fit. She claimed she sustained a spinal injury. The court ruled in favor and ordered the wife of the MP to pay her. “I sustained a spinal injury and was admitted at Kijabe Hosiptal for five months. I instituted the suit and the court ruled in my favor, am yet to receive the money,” said Onganga. Nzisa she said had committed herself to be paying Sh100, 000 each month starting June this year but she is failed to pay. While in court Nzisa informed the court that she had no money and pleaded to be paying Sh20,000 each month. She further pleaded with the court to admit her on bond. The officer on her part want the woman committed to six month civil jail for disobeying court orders. Nakuru Principal Magistrate Bernard Mararo allowed the woman’s application and admitted her to Sh100, 000 personal bond. She is expected to appear in court on Monday.