 The 3rd season of KCB Lion’s Den show premiers tonight at 8:00 pm on KTN. 58 budding entrepreneurs will be envisaging to strike business deals during the show. ALSO READ:

New Faces: KTN unveils new team KCB Bank has partnered with KTN as the official media partner to air the 13 episode show and QBF as the production house/producer. KCB Director of Marketing and Communications Angela Mwirigi expressed the Bank’s commitment towards supporting young entrepreneurs and SMEs in the country. “We as KCB Bank believe that supporting young entrepreneurs was crucial especially in terms of financing. What KCB Lions’ Den platform does, is not only providing funding but also helping the young SMEs get mentors and take their businesses to the next level,” Ms. Mwirigi noted. Most of the businesses set to be pitched during the 3rd season will cut across various sectors of the economy including agriculture, design, education, energy, ICT, health, publishing, food & beverages, manufacturing, environment, entertainment and service. KCB has partnered with the Standard Group for the show, whose main aim is to connect entrepreneurs with successful venture capitalists, who have already cut their teeth in the business world. The entrepreneurs are able to get financial, social and intellectual capital for their new and innovative businesses. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. “KCB Bank will endeavor to continue supporting the youth as a leading financial catalyst and a mentor. As we start the new year, the youth and SMEs in general are at the core of our business. To ensure that brilliant business ideas are supported to the top level,” Ms. Mwirigi added. The panelists include Myke Rabar, CEO Homeboyz Entertainment, Darshan Chandaria, Group CEO and Director of Chandaria Industries; Olive Gachara, Founder and Publisher of Couture Magazine Africa; Kris Senanu, CEO of Blackrock Entertainment and Joanne Mwangi Founder and CEO of PMS Group. KCB Lions’ Den TV show is part of the KCB Group 2Jiajiri programme expected to benefit at least 500,000 youth in a period of 5 years. The programme, which also encompasses a business challenge for start-ups, enable young entrepreneurs to submit their business ideas for funding. ALSO READ:

KTN News unveils new anchors (Video)