A medical procedure to extract a tooth that led to a cardiac arrest of an 11-year old boy has cost two doctors their private practising licences. The Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board found Dr Sunil Vinayak and Dr Geoffrey King’ang’a guilty of nine counts of misconduct and professional negligence that almost killed the minor. ALSO READ:

Woman fights hospital over Sh2m charge Apart from suspending their licences, the board ordered the two to enter into negotiations with the minor’s father Michael Isaac Ombuor on a compensation package within 90 days. “The committee holds that the two doctors held a duty of care to the patient which was breached. They should have considered the risks and all appropriate factors before making a decision that endangered the patient’s life,” said the board’s Chairman Dr Andrew Wetende. Mr Ombuor had sued the two doctors, claiming their negligence almost cost the life of his son and forced him to spend a lot of money for his treatment in India. Ombuor, in his complaint, said he took his son on August 26, 2015 for a dental check-up at Smile Africa Dental Clinic in Westlands operated by Dr Vinayak. He was informed the procedure would involve extraction of multiple teeth, clean up and filling of braces. They arrived at the clinic at 6.30pm and was introduced to Dr King’ang’a as the one who would administer general anaesthesia to his son. Operating room “I was advised to leave the operating room to enable the doctors commence the procedure and at 6.45pm, Dr King’ang’a came outside and handed me a prescription for medication he wanted me to buy immediately,” said Ombuor. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He rushed to buy the medicine and returned at 7.15pm and when he inquired why the procedure was taking too long, a nurse informed him that all was well. At 9.15pm, Dr Viniyak and Dr King’ang’a came out of the operating room and told him that everything went on well but that his son had to be transferred to an Intensive Care Unit in another hospital. He accused the two doctors of failing to take quick action after his son suffered cardiac arrest at 7.30pm and waited until 10.30pm when he was transferred to MP Shah for specialised treatment. “As a consequence, Smile Africa Dental Clinic is directed to stop performing procedures under general anaesthesia forthwith,” ruled the medical board. The board further fined Dr Viniyak Sh250,000 and Dr King’ang’a Sh150,000 for their negligence. 