The newly constructed state of art mother child care unit at Nakuru Level Five hospital. SEPTEMBER 18, 2018. [PHOTO: CAROLINE CHEBET] The state-of-the-art mother and newborn unit constructed at a cost of Sh450 million at the Nakuru Level Five Hospital will be opened next month. ALSO READ:

Nakuru woman admits to selling baby for Sh1,200 Ground breaking of the construction was held in April, 2017, according to Martin Njoroge, the clerk of works in the Ministry of Public Works. “We are doing final touches on the mother and babycare facility,” said Mr Njoroge. The biggest maternity facility in the larger Rift Valley region will offer pregnancy care and safe childbirth to boost universal healthcare that has been listed among the Big Four agenda. The Nakuru Level Five Medical Superintendent Joseph Mburu said on completion, the facility, with bed capacity of 288, would serve the county and neighbouring Bomet, Baringo, Narok, Kericho, Samburu, Laikipia and Nyandarua. “The maternity hospital will be the second biggest in the country after Pumwani in Nairobi,” said Dr Mburu. The unit has four modern theatres installed with shadeless lamps, antenatal and postnatal clinics. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Specialised care Children born with complications will get specialised care at the neonatal Intensive Care Unit. There are also isolation wards for newborns at the newly constructed facility. ALSO READ:

Woman arrested while attempting to sell her baby at Sh1,200 The unit will promote Kangaroo mother care programme for those born prematurely. Other services to be offered include child clinic, immunisation and family planning. “All maternal services, including reproduction health education, will be offered at the facility. For example, we shall have gynecologists who will be able to handle reproductive health-related complications, with tens of deliveries done at ago,” said Dr Mburu. The Nakuru Level Five maternity facility has a bed capacity of 17, with at least an average of 30 deliveries reported each day. The facility performs eight caesarian sections per day. Mburu said despite some challenges caused by the change of leadership at the county, they had managed to adhere to set timelines. The hospital unit will have a well-designed garden to help mothers and babies in the healing process. “The constructor has placed a vibrant greenery, shaded places to sit and walk, and small half-hidden animal sculptures that will fascinate visitors of all ages to provide healing atmosphere to clients served," said Njoroge. ALSO READ:

Patient goes missing from hospital Construction of the unit is being undertaken by Marimo Construction Limited and supervised by the department of Public Works. 