Absent from the frontline for a few moons, I have upon return made a point of asking Kenyans what they now make of the famous March 9 handshake between Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta. Interestingly, almost everyone approves of the gesture of friendship even if no one can explain what the handshake was about nor the benefit it has brought six months after its surprise occurrence. ALSO READ:

Raila’s party changes tack in 2022 strategy Most welcome the March ceasefire with relief rather than excitement since political and ethnic tension has reduced and Kenyans can resume normal relations and friendship with their neighbours. Kenyans no longer feel the need to defend their ethnic identity or apologise for the failings of their so-called leaders. They are much more likely to admit that ethnic political barons have been playing games with their votes and minds for far too long. They point to the fact that as in 2008, the elites end up drinking tea together and sharing the spoils while Wanjiku and Atieno end up poor or in prison for their misguided support of their ethnic leaders. That is one major outcome of the March 9 encounter. While most then breathe a sigh of relief few, want to discuss the credibility of last year’s ballot, nor the IEBC nor even justice for Chris Msando’s family. That is the amnesia dimension to the handshake. Even Opposition parties have gone silent on these issues. The Building Bridges Team have made little impact either and resembles the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) agency lacking any justice agenda. Who talks about justice these days? Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The silence of the Opposition confirms that they are just cut from the same cloth as Jubilee. The only difference is the ethnic and geographical factor. In terms of ideology, values and lifestyle they are all the same. ODM is still waiting and wondering what ‘Baba’ has to say before speaking on any issue of national importance, including the 16 per cent VAT on fuel. Of course, there will always be a minority of MPs from all the parties who retain a national agenda and who are mindful of the poor and dispossessed of the nation. But unless they combine their forces, they will not impact greatly. What the handshake has demonstrated is that ethnicity is not the number one problem in the country. Inequality is, and the elected representatives are for the most part unwilling to address the glaring inequality that divides and impoverishes the nation in a way that ethnicity never does. ALSO READ:

Starving nation may put paid to Uhuru lofty plan Inequality is left unaddressed because it exposes the great class divide that is maintained and safeguarded by the ruling political and property owning class of the nation. To speak of social justice is to challenge the status quo and politicians are not ready to surrender their privileges and perks to share the national cake with the underprivileged. Religious leaders convened a National Dialogue Conference at Ufungamano House this week. Their initiative attempted to compliment the Building Bridges plan while reminding the handshake team that nothing credible or commendable has emerged in six months from that team. However, neither team appears willing to tackle the issues of inequality and social justice. There was no outrage on the podium about the cost of sugar, flour or cooking oil. The national debt is at Sh5 trillion and the burden of repayment is passed not onto those who incurred the loans or looted their share but to those who are least able to pay – the poor and unemployed. It is likely that the amount looted from national coffers and laundered in real estate at home and abroad is greater than the national debt. Will religious leaders speak about that? Tribalism is just a facade to conceal looting and the enslavement of the poor, who are found in equal measure in every ethnic group. Only the emergence of a strong social movement that gives them space and a voice can seriously challenge the status quo and bring about change. Harriett Tubman said, ‘I freed a thousand slaves, I could have freed thousands more if only they knew they were slaves’. This is the national dialogue that is required. -gdolan54@gmail.com @GabrielDolan1 ALSO READ:

Ways Kenya can reap from renewed UK ties The views and opinions expressed here are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of Standardmedia.co.ke