  A Chinese motorcycle dealer is set to be deported after his arrest for calling Kenyans monkeys and insulting President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Immigration Department said Thursday Liu Jiaqi’s permit had been canceled and would be deported on racism grounds. As this story was being posted,  Liu Jiaqi had been driven to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport for deportation. ALSO READ:

China in debt relief pledge “A Chinese national by the name Liu Jiaqi who was captured on video yesterday (Wednesday) using abusive words has been arrested. Jiaqi is being processed for deportation,” the department said. Jiaqi was secretly captured in a video by a worker he had threatened to sack from his motorcycle shop. In the clip, the trader brags that there is nothing that 'poor, black, smelly' Kenyans can do to him. The employee is heard arguing a case of unfair treatment by the Chinese man who interrupts him saying it is because he is Kenyan. He says in the clip all he wanted in Kenya was to make money. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The clip angered many online who asked for action. Some demanded that he be charged in court before the Government deports him. The Immigration department said the man was arrested on Thursday following complaints and the emergence of the clip. Three other Chinese who were arrested from a casino in Kilimani area at the weekend were deported. They were part of 21 foreigners who included 18 Chinese who were arrested from the joint. The rest were released. ALSO READ:

China: No debts, we are helping Africa develop The video emerged barely hours after police raided CGTN studios in Nairobi and arrested foreign nationals. The company said police arrested 13 workers, eight being the broadcaster's employees. The lunch time raid was conducted to pick foreigners who were alleged to be working for the media house without proper documents. The Chinese embassy in Nairobi said it had received help call from 13 Chinese nationals who were detained by Kenyan police even though they held legal documents. The consular officers of the Chinese Embassy then rushed to the police station and said they had raised concerns over the conduct of the security forces. “13 Chinese nationals, after being verified the documents, were proven to be legal residents and were released immediately. Several such events happened recently. The Chinese Embassy is expressing its concern to Kenyan side through diplomatic channel,” the statement said. It added; “The Chinese Embassy in Kenya always requires the Chinese companies and individuals to abide by the local law, stay and work legally in Kenya. The Chinese Embassy respects the legal acts of Kenyan police. However, the Embassy deems that the Chinese nationals who hold legal residence and working permits should not be detained.” ALSO READ:

Billions invested in roads: Official Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet also confirmed that the incident saying the operation was conducted in search of illegal immigrants that netted the 13 who were later freed after presenting their papers. Immigration department has deported more than 1,000 foreigners for being in the country illegally in an ongoing operation.