Migori Governor Okoth Obado's Personall Assistant Michael Oyamo (In Green blazer)when he was the Deputy School Captain at St. Joseph Rapogi High School in Migori in 1990s. [Photo: Courtesy] Michael Juma Oyamo, the key suspect in the murder of university student Sharon Otieno, was once Migori Governor Okoth Obado's student at St Joseph's Rapogi High School. ALSO READ:

Obado in eight hour grilling over university student murder Mr Obado, also an alumnus of Rapogi High in Uriri, Migori County, was posted to the school in the mid '90s after graduating with a bachelor's degree in education from Kenyatta University. Mr Oyamo, who would become the governor's personal assistant 22 years later, has been described as one of Obado's favourite physics and accounting students. The governor is said to have been a dedicated teacher who showed no interest in politics. "Oyamo was my classmate and Obado taught us physics in Form One in 1996. He later taught us accounting in Form Three," said a former Rapogi High School student who requested anonymity. "Oyamo was one of Obado's best students as he was very good in physics." Obado worked in several schools before quitting to join the Kenya Sugar Board as a director representing Awendo zone. This was before he was elected board chairman, a position that thrust him into national politics. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Obado and Oyamo come from Uriri sub-county. However, they are said to have lost touch until Obado was elected governor. Oyamo joined Obado's campaign team ahead of last year's elections. Using his military experience, he is said to have supported Obado's security detail. Early this year, Oyamo was hired as the governor's PA. His former classmates described him as a deeply religious person who once served as an altar boy at a local Catholic church. ALSO READ:

Officer suspected of defiling minor released on bond Oyamo also served as deputy school captain and was popular with other students. "He was a good guy, always smartly dressed and very polite. He was a pious Catholic and never missed church," said a former classmate. 