A picture of Kibuye market taken on February 05,2017 on a market day. The reconstruction of the market into an ultramodern facility through Sh300 million donor funding has been delayed in what has been linked to political interest. [Photo: Denish Ochieng/ Standard] The World Bank has slashed the Sh200 million it had offered for the expansion of Kibuye market to Sh40 million, citing delays in the project. ALSO READ:

IMF role revealed The money for the project was released two years ago. The project was to be undertaken in five years. The market's upgrading was part of the Sh4 billion Kisumu Urban Project (KUP). It was meant to change the face of one of the biggest markets in the region. The upgrading included refurbishing the market's sanitary facilities. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Yesterday, Kisumu City Manager Dorice Ombara and City Engineer Kevin Ajul said the World Bank, which had made available a Sh200 million grant for the project, had expressed dissatisfaction with the speed at which the money was being utilised. "World Bank officials visited us and requested to tour the market site where they established there was no substantive progress in the project," said Mr Ajul The World Bank questioned the rationale of allocating millions for the project that has yet to kick off and slashed the initial grant by 80 per cent. ALSO READ:

Graft to cost Kenya more in loans, warns World Bank On whether the project will kick off soon, Ajul said the county was seeking space for access roads, car parks and ablution blocks. "The ablution blocks are at the tendering stage," he said. However, construction of a car park has been ruled out due to lack of space. According to the engineer, an agreement had been reached with the city management authorities to help build additional access roads and improve social amenities. The access roads were necessary to move traders away from the Kakamega-Kisumu road, which they have invaded. He assured residents that the planned Sh650 million market upgrade plan was still on and that the project would start once the technical hitches were resolved.  ALSO READ:

Hillcrest PE firm Fanisi cuts back funding target 