Family, friends and world dignitaries gathered in Ghana’s Capital Accra to pay their last respects to fallen ex-UN Chief Dr Koffi Annan. Annan’s wife, Nane Maria and children paid glowing tributes to the global peacemaker at an Accra Military cemetery. ALSO READ:

World leaders eulogize Kofi Anan in burial ceremony Annan’s daughter Ama Anana Adedeji spoke of her father's pursuit of truth in fighting for peace. "How lucky  I am to have a father who makes saying goodbye so hard. We were rewarded with his wisdom," she said. Annan's son Kojo remembered him as a father who believed in a life of respect, peace and equality, adding that the greatest tribute that could ever be paid to Annan was to follow his example. His widow Nane Maria shed tears recalling the pleasant moments they shared together. Maria eulogised her husband as "a man who challenged all people around him to make at least a step for a better world." She thanked "God for giving him an extraordinary man who always believed in her strength". Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. "My love, you are now back home where you started your long journey but may your wisdom and comparison continue to inspire us and guide us wherever we are,"  AFP quotes her as saying. Annan hailed from Konongo in Ashanti region of Ghana and was born into one of the Ashanti and Fante aristocratic country's families, his uncle being a chief. Speaking on behalf of the patrilineal family, spokesperson Georgina Darling Ofori said that they had lost a very important member of the family. ALSO READ:

Did you know Kofi Annan played football as an attacking winger? [Photos] According to her, the late Kofi Anan's father, Henry Reginald Anan, was a prominent person in the gold coast who instilled in him the virtues of honesty and humility. She said  Reginald was the first Ashanti regional commissioner under the former Prime Minister Dr K. A. Busi. Seth Ashie, a friend of Annan at Mfantsipim School said Kofi was very political during their school days. Seth further said Anan openly opposed the Convention People's Party (CPP) administration then led by Dr Kwame Nkurumah. He added that Anan was referred to as 'Dombo' meaning opposition. Kofi Anan's body was buried at Accra Millitary cemetery.   ALSO READ:

Raila in Ghana for Annan’s burial (Photos)