Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu when he presided over the launch of launch of Amani Ridge, a modern high-end mini-city in Kiambu, following partnership between Optiven Group and Fusion Capital. [David Njaaga, Standard] Two county executive committee members who were suspended two weeks ago have been sacked. ALSO READ:

Millions lost in hospital project Governor Ferdinand Waititu had suspended the health executive, James Murega, and his trade counterpart, Isabel Waiyaki, allegedly for mismanaging their respective dockets. He told journalists he had instructed the two to respond in writing to the claims made against them. The governor has nominated former Gatundu North MP Kigo Njenga and Juliet Kimemia the new trade and health CECs respectively. Dr Kimemia vied for the Kiambu senatorial position but lost to the incumbent, Kimani Wamatangi, in the Jubilee Party primaries held on April 25, 2018. The county assembly yesterday, in a newspaper advert, invited the two to appear before the committee on appointments on September 20 for approval hearings. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. The assembly appealed to members to submit any evidence they had on the suitability or otherwise of the nominees. A fortnight ago, the county chief said he suspended Dr Murega because of a crisis that had rocked the health department for the past few months. There had been complaints about congestion, lack of drugs and food in many county hospitals. ALSO READ:

We are in office to stay, LSK leadership vows “We have been having problems in our hospitals and we want to investigate if (Murega) is the one at fault,” said Mr Waititu. Concerning the trade docket he said: “So many things are happening at the trade department without me being involved. Some things are not going the right way and people are complaining.” People complaining The governor said all executives in the county must keep him and Kiambu residents updated on what was going on in their dockets. In May, the governor sacked the executive for water, environment and natural resources, John Mugwe. Mr Mugwe was dismissed shortly after the governor sent him on a 30-day compulsory leave.  ALSO READ:

MCAs threaten to sue State for cutting off water supply   