 Military and police are investigating an incident in which a soldier was found dead after a suspected suicide incident within the Department of Defence headquarters. ALSO READ:

Suicide: Shock as 11-year-old boy hangs in Murang’a The soldier who is said to be based in Lanet had come to visit a colleague at the DoD staff quarters when his body was found hanging in the bathroom. He had also come to run errands at the headquarters. It is not clear what transpired until the time when his body was found dangling on a rope in the bathroom on Saturday. Officials at DoD alerted civilian police to collect the body to the mortuary. Police said they are jointly with Military Police investigating the incident. Meanwhile, police are holding a woman who stabbed her husband to death in a domestic quarrel in Mathare slums. The two are said to have argued in their house before the incident happened. The woman was later traced and arrested within the area. And police are also looking for a gang that carjacked a matatu and robbed passengers of their valuables and cash along Jogoo Road, Nairobi. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The matatu was headed for Donholm Wednesday evening when four men boarded it at Landhies Road area near City Stadium and started to rob those on board. Witnesses and police said the gang later alighted along Jogoo Road and escaped on foot. A woman who tried to resist the incident was hit in the head and seriously injured. Such cases have been reported on most roads in the city during end month. A team of police officers is investigating the incidents with an intention of breaking the cartel behind it. ALSO READ:

Mob lynches police imposter Police usually advise crews to vet passengers getting into their vehicles as a way of addressing the menace. A number of matatu crew have in the past months been arrested and charged in court for failing to stop such attacks. To beat the attacks, some operators have been altering their buses’ interior set up. This includes construction of barriers between the passengers and the driver. Police say some of the attacks are orchestrated by rival matatu operators to drive their competitors from the businesses.