Bar stools are a fantastic way to demarcate a kitchen and living room area, especially for an open plan setting. Family members can sit at the kitchen counter and interact with whoever is preparing the food. Similarly bar stools can be used at the bar for easy chats over a drink, and can also be found in beauty and hair salons, in medical clinics, entertainment joints, TV stations, pulpits and exhibition spaces. There are a few things to consider when purchasing counter stools. Desired height Before you set out to buy bar stools, it helps to measure the distance between the counter and the floor to ensure that there is enough leg room. Most counter and bar stools have a mechanism that allows the seat to be adjusted, but it helps to have the measurements so you get it right the first time. Matching wood colour. Obviously, you want your bar stools to blend in with your kitchen counters or floor boards or a finishing that makes a clever contrast to the rest of the decor. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Number of stools needed Decide on the number of bar stools that will comfortable fit the length of the counter.  An odd number such as three or five have an aesthetic appeal. Each stool should fit within a two and a half feet space, which allows adequate leg room space in between the stools, especially so if the stools have a swivel. Seat padding Use upholstered seat paddings to colour co-ordinate with the rest of the room furnishings such as curtains and cushion covers. If your house has children and pets, it might be advisable to use waterproof or easy to wipe fabrics. Spaces used by adults can accommodate more vibrant colours and more versatile fabrics. Foot, back or arm rest When purchasing bar stools you want to think about additional accessories you might want. Do you want one with a back rest, armrest, or foot rest? It is best to think about functionality then work through the aesthetics that fit within your budget. 