Two electoral officials were last evening picked up by police as wrangles between chairman Wafula Chebukati and suspended CEO Ezra Chiloba intensified. Acting Finance Director Agatha Wahome and Chiloba's personal assistant Abednego Ominde were taken to Central police station in Nairobi for allegedly sneaking out files from Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission offices. ALSO READ:

IEBC warns of political violence as Migori senate campaigns starts Chebukati confirmed the arrest saying the two were found with files from the finance and procurement departments. However the two told police they were preparing documents for Chiloba who was expected back in office today (Friday) to respond to audit queries raised in the internal audit. Wahome had given the files to Ominde who was to make copies for his boss but was intercepted at the exit of Anniversary Towers by Chebukati's security. The bodyguards demanded for clearance sheet but he could not produce it prompting the officers to call their boss. Chebukati then called police officers from Central and by the time of going to press, the two were still recording a statement. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 In a statement to newsrooms yesterday Chiloba said the officers should not be victimised for doing what they are supposed to do in good faith. "My attention has been drawn to the reported suspension of IEBC Ag. Finance manager Ms. Agatha Wahome and arrest of one of my personal assistants Mr. Abednego Ominde on alleged sneaking out of documents from the Commission," Chiloba said. He goes on to say that he has been away from the office for the last five months to allow completion of an audit on procurements in relation to the 2017 General Election. ALSO READ:

Chiloba fights plan to fire him from IEBC He says as the accounting officer during the expenditure period he was due to resume duty on September 14 and given the magnitude of the audit queries raised over his absence from office and need to respond adequately he had personally requested copies of the relevant documents to be ready upon his return to work. Chiloba said there was nothing unusual for the officers to run copies of the relevant documents in preparation for his return to work.