 Most new HIV infections are among young people, according to Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki. ALSO READ:

Rise in HIV/Aids infection among youth shocking: CS Kariuki She said more than 40 per cent of the new infections occurred among those aged 15-24 years. Ms Kariuki said the 2018 Global Progress Report by UNAIDS confirmed that attainment of 90:90:90 target in the management of HIV and Aids by 2020 may not be achieved unless interventions to tame new infections and end stigma were designed. The 90:90:90 target was aimed at ensuring that 90 per cent of HIV-positive persons were diagnosed and at least 90 per cent of those diagnosed provided with antiretroviral therapy (ART). The strategy was also aimed at achieve 90 per cent suppression of the virus. The CS also expressed concern over reducing funding for programmes meant to fight the scourge and called on stakeholders to ensure a sustained resource base for HIV and AIDS response. “Kenya has made deliberate efforts towards HIV prevention over the past decade, from embracing biomedical approaches to provision of condoms. The country has also designed high impact interventions towards the elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis,” said Kariuki. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “These efforts are well demonstrated by initiatives such as Linda Mama programme, the First Lady’s Beyond Zero Campaign and the five-year National HIV Control Strategic plan, among others.” She made the remarks in a speech read on her behalf by Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman during the 10th anniversary of the Aids Healthcare Foundation (AHF). AHF Kenya is working with other stakeholders to enhance testing and treatment of HIV and Aids. The NGO is also involved in condom distribution. ALSO READ:

Vaginal ring to protect young girls against HIV “We have invested in reforms at the National Health Insurance Fund as we seek to provide a cover for those infected. We are keen to offer requisite HIV services,” she said.