A man accused of assaulting the directors of Ridgeways-Inn and stealing over Sh 100,000 from the safe has been charged at Makadara Law Courts. Daniel Kimani Kariuki denied four counts of assault and stealing money from the said premises on September 20, 2018. ALSO READ:

Elachi’s woes persist as MCAs elect Mwaura as acting speaker The court heard that at Ridgeways –Inn in Nairobi County with others not before court, he unlawfully assaulted Samuel Kiarie Maina thereby causing actual body harm. Kimani faced three other counts in which he was accused of assaulting three other people from that place who are Alex Wanjala Wangila, Bernard Njogu Kariuki and Sylvia Wambui Karanja on similar dates and place. In the fourth count, he was charged with stealing Sh 103,000 and one mobile phone make Samsung Galaxy worth Sh 40,000 all valued at Sh 143,000 the property of Silvia Wambui Karanja on same date. The police file indicates that this is a case of assault causing actual bodily harm contrary to the law contrary to the law. The complainants in this case are three and are employed by Silvia Wambui who is the director of Ridgeways Inn, the yard along Kiambu road. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 While they were on duty they were confronted by Kimani who is the accused in this case of assault. He arrived at the compound with 15 men all dressed in black suites and calling themselves bouncers. They were armed with Crowbar and chains and told the complainant that they wanted to take the ownership of the management and posing with the order from Kiambu court number 145/2018. ALSO READ:

MCAs: No more drama, we have moved on The accused told the first complainant to surrender the keys light house and green houses and the other three complainants were told to go out of the compound. The first second and third complainants resisted and struggle began where they received injuries during the struggle. It is said that the complainants complained being assaulted by the accused persons. Sh 103,000.00 had been stolen from the safe and with the help of the CCTV, the accused were identified and were arrested and charged. He was released on Sh cash bail 100,000 and bond The matter will be heard on November 26, 2018. ALSO READ:

Nairobi most dangerous county for babies