The sittings, expected to cost Sh39million, are part of the normal House sittings and draw from article 126(1) of the Consititution. "A sitting of either House may be held at any place within Kenya and may commence at any time that the House appoints'" the law states. ALSO READ:

Maize farmers yet to be paid for their deliveries House Speaker Kenneth Lusaka will lead the sessions from September 24-28 during which the county assembly and the Senate will share their experiences and challenges. The county assembly chambers will host the 67 senators who are accompanied by 230 staff booked into various hotels in Eldoret town. The senators will put up at the high-end Boma Hotel at a cost Sh12,000 per night, while their staff and management will be accomodated in other hotels charging an average of Sh6000 according to an official budget obtained by The Standard. The hospitality industry will be the biggest beneficiary of the Sh8.7 million accommodation budget, supported by other related expenses such as entertainment and taxi services. The senators will, among other activities, grill three governors on audit queries riased by Auditor General Edward Ouko in 2014-2015 financial year. Those to be questioned are West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo, his Uasin Ngishu counterpart Jackson Mandago and Baringo's Stanley Kiptis. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Their will be staff benchmarking engagements and exchange programmes between directorates and departments. The Senate Ad Hoc Committee on Maize and Agriculture will hold public hearings on the maize crisis, a thorny issue that has left farmers dejected over non-payment of billions of shillings for deliveries to the National Cereals and Produce Board. Other House committes will also have various engagements in the county. ALSO READ:

ATM posho mill in Eldoret "Everything is on course. As the secretariat, we are satisfied with all the plans and logistics. The venue, committee room, broadcasting are what we want them to be.We have had meetings and the county assembly and county executive have been co-operativein making sittings successful," said Senate Clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye yesterday. More then 50 parliamentary staff are booked at Cicada Hotel; staff described the windfall as a godsend for the hospitality industry. "Almost all our rooms are full. We are benefiting because the Senate has given every hotel business. Three-quarters of the hotels are full. New clients may not find hotels," said Cicada marketing management. By holding sittings outside the capital city, the senators succeeded in pre-empting the National Assembly, which in May rejected a push to set aside Sh196 million for countrywide sittings in this financial year. Host Senator Margaret Kamar however argued that the sittings were part of their mandate. "The Consitution allows us to sit in any county. This is meant to bring Government closer to the people and also build confidence. We will have public hearings with a possibility of coming up with legislation on various issues affecting the country. We are expecting good public interactions and would like to assure everybody that everything is on course," said Prof Kamar. The senators and parliament staff have been flown to Eldoret at a cost of Sh2.3 million. And because these are ordinary Sebate sittings, the senators will be entitled to allowances amounting to Sh1.3 million. ALSO READ:

Visitors Eldoret Youth FC leave it late to put one past Shaban FC Accompanying staff will pocket Sh3.4million in allowances during the sessions. Other expenses include Sh5.5 million (advertising) Sh8.5million (catering) and Sh1.8million (transport). The county assembly also spent Sh8million on refurbishing ahead of today's sittings. During their stay, senators will have the option of moving around in three vans and five Toyota Prados hired by parliament. Yesterday, staff at Boma Hotel were busy sprucing up the facility, including replacing old matresses to ensure the senator's comfort. But despite the excitement, questions arose over a decision to erect billboards bearing the faces of senators along Eldoret streets. It is not clear who- between the Senate and the county government- funded the billboards. At the county assembly chambers, it was all systems go and local leaders were upbeat. "It will be a major milestone for Uasin Ngishu. We are privileged to be the first county outside the city to host the Senate. The county will be a model for the rest," Speaker David Kiplagat said.  ALSO READ:

County to install free internet in Eldoret     