If President Uhuru Kenyatta takes time off his long transatlantic flight back home to sample the comments on his social media posts for the last one week, he will be in for a rude shock. In span of a year when love dotted his posts, tables have turned for the man who swept to power in 2013 through, among other strategies, capturing the imaginations of voting base through strategic imaging and messaging. ALSO READ:

No new taxes until UhuRuto have a change of values All it took was for him to sign the Finance Bill, 2018 allowing 8 per cent tax on fuel products for Kenyans to descend on him. For the last one week he has been in New York, all his postings have been met with unprecedented vitriol from Kenyans who cursed, insulted and dismissed him with contempt. Demand equity So much has the pressure been that the Presidential Strategic Communication Unit (PSCU) had to rest the UNGA (United Nations General Assembly) hashtag for a while to ward off unrelenting Kenyans. When he met top Canadian captains of industry on Thursday and posted that they had assured him of “continued appetite to invest in Kenya” he walked right into the trap of Kenyans who are now averse to such terms as appetite. “Come and sign the weed bill Asap. We need to feel high just like the executive and legislature feels when passing tax laws. We demand equity in weed consumption,” Timothy Mutura retorted. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Javan Lewis followed him up: “The only thing I have gained so far under your presidency is being the first to comment without reading your long sentences.” To Kenyatta, the deal on 100,000 affordable houses signed on Wednesday was such a big deal. But not to Kenyans seething at increased taxation and runway corruption depleting the taxes collected. When he posted the news, he was met with an outpouring of fury: “Please take a break from updating us on this projects no body is interested in them just come and sign the marijuana bill,” Mwangi Muriithi said as others asked him to ask Majority Leader Aden Duale lobby for the doggone bill. ALSO READ:

The underlying problem in Budget is lack of sound public finance policy “Deliver to who? Who asked for the houses? Have Kenyans been living on trees? Another one quipped. For Francis Mbugua, the situation obtaining in Kenya is akin to the relationship between a tree and an axe: “The trees voted for an axe thinking its theirs just because its handle was made of wood.” Others thought pens should be kept off him in New York lest he signs up another loan. “Wewewewe! You didn’t represent me, when I remember the price of kerosene is the same as of diesel as if we will be driving our stoves and korobois to work,” Paul Maina said. By Thursday, Kenyans had even begun to study the patterns of the posts: “So you have decided to be posting late night to avoid the wrath of Kenyans?? come also ascent to weed bill, we need to be under some influence to survive in Kenya,” Elisha Kiptoo said. Pitah Waweru regretted “1001” times for “waking up that early to vote Kenyatta: “For the grandmothers I carried with my own car to polling station, please forgive me,” he added. Gyan Reborn Wahome was consistent in taking the President head on. He advised him to consider holding Mashujaa Day at State house “because No Kenyan is attending any of your functions.” ALSO READ:

Only miracles can repair the ruling Jubilee Party brand Jerry Mo couldn’t stand the continuous claims by the President that he was acting on Kenyans behalf: “I’m now getting irritated. We had agreed that you’re representing yourself but it seems you can’t stop mentioning us (Kenyans). Cheza chini nanii.” His meeting with Bill and Melinda Gates on the sidelines of the assembly was met with online boos and jeers. People were anxious he would borrow from the two philanthropists. Some suggested there should be public participation in borrowing. “Make sure after greetings your hands should remain in your pockets to avoid signing anything there in terms of development funds,” Asuroi Simon exclaimed. Many more made fun of the situation: “Wanjiku is now the proud owner of a fuel guzzler just like her counterparts with v8s. Only difference is that it is a kerosene stove,” Justus Mwangi. “On judgement day I will be wearing a Kenyan flag to notify JESUS that I’ve been through a lot,” John Kiki.