Cabinet Secretary for Tourism Najib Balala where he said SKAL Kenya to host 79th SKAL International World Congress 2018. [PHOTO:WILBERFORCE OKWIRI] Pride Inn Paradise Beach Resort Convention Centre & Spa in Mombasa is ready to host the much publicised week long 79th Skal Congress. ALSO READ:

Athletics: Lorita and Cherono triumph at annual Mombasa marathon It is the first time the organisation which is headquartered in Spain is holding the global tourism event in Africa since its establishment in 1934. This convention is set to bring together global tourism, travel and hospitality leaders and investors as well as other players to discuss global tourism and travel development. The congress themed “Congress on the Beach” will be held from October 17-21, 2018 at the prestigious PrideInn Paradise Beach and Resort & Convention Centre in Shanzu, Mombasa. It has so far attracted more than 500 tourism and hospitality agents across the globe. PrideInn Paradise Beach Hotel and Resort has conferencing facility with a sitting capacity of 2,500 guests. “I can confidently say that we are prepared for 79th Skal International Congress which will be held here in Mombasa county. We want to assure Kenyans that PrideInn is set to accommodate the five hundred expected visitors comfortably,” Hasnain Noorani said, the Managing Director PrideInn Group of Hotels. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Hasnain also said that the Conference is a big score for Kenya’s tourism arena as it will once again market Kenya on the tourism destination maps of the world. ''The Congress provides a unique opportunity for its members to meet other members from around the globe in Kenya as well as tour and experience special features and unique tourism products offered by the Kenya hospitality industry,'' the MD said. Skal congress was originally set to be held in Mombasa in 2014 but cancelled following security alerts and travel advisories against Kenya as a destination due to a series of terror attacks that rocked the country. ALSO READ:

Trains slowed down by clogged city cargo depot The congress, in which over 250 international delegates are expected, will open up the Magical Kenya to the world. “We now enjoy a favourable environment bolstered by increased investor and tourists confidence to make the event a success. SKAL will open a window of opportunities for The Magical Kenya to share with the world what it is made of,” said Hasnain. This event is expected to provide an exceptional chance for Kenya and Mombasa County to showcase her quality tourism and hospitality experience. Kenya has lately experienced a thriving MICE tourism by hosting prestigious global events like Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD), The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and Global Partnership on Economic Development Conference (GPEDC) in the last two years among others. These Meetings, Conferences and exhibitions have positioned Kenya as an important player in the conference tourism.