  Properties worth thousands of shillings were reduced to ashes after fire gutted down a dormitory in Karima Girls High School in Kinangop, Nyandarua County. Over 200 students mainly in form four were affected by the Saturday night incident that paralyzed learning in the national school. ALSO READ:

Inter-county Games: Senate sails through as Nyandarua set up a thrilling tug of war final with Kisumu None of the student was injured as they were all in class as tens of parents rushed to the institution located a few kilometers from Ndunyu Njeru trading center. Nothing was salvaged in the dormitory that host form fours with members of the public, police, students and teachers joining hands to contain the inferno. According to a witness James Kimani who lives near the school, they were attracted by screams from the school after smoke was detected from one of the dormitories. He said that they had to use all means to contain the fire from spreading to the nearby dormitories which hosted students from lower classes. “The students were in class when the fire was detected and we joined hands and managed to put it off the fire after three hours,” he said. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Area Chief Peter Kanyara who was among those who joined in putting down the fire said that they were yet to establish the cause of the inferno. Kanyara said that nearly all the personal goods of the students had been destroyed adding that a meeting had been called to discuss the way forward. “The most affected students were those in form four but we thank God that no one was injured during the 8pm incident,” he said. ALSO READ:

Sh286m town upgrade launched A teacher in the school who declined to be named said that they were seeking ways of supporting the form four students who start their exams in a week’s time. Meanwhile a driver of a Canter died on the spot after he rammed into the rear of a trailer along the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road on Saturday night. A passenger in the Canter was seriously injured during the accident near Chechynia trading center 15kms from Naivasha town. A senior police officer who declined to be named said that the driver could have slept leading to the fatal accident that adversely affected the flow of traffic. “The body has been taken to the Naivasha mortuary while the wreck has been towed to the police station,” said the officer.  ALSO READ:

Attempt to impeach two CECs flops