  Money collected in taxes is being used diligently, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Speaking at a fundraiser at Gikondi Catholic Parish in Nyeri County yesterday, Mr Ruto said the Jubilee government had a clear vision when making development proposals to Parliament. ALSO READ:

Musalia on the spot after party's threat “Those claiming that the money being collected in taxes is being lost through corruption are misleading Kenyans. The Jubilee government is capable and responsible about what we intend to do for this country,” he said. Ruto also said the Jubilee administration had made progress in implementing its development agenda. “We know our priorities so please respect what we have done in the past five years." Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa echoed the DP’s sentiments and said the country could not be governed through conferences and public forums as suggested by the Opposition. “Kenya is run by the constitutionally recognised insititutions such as the Legislature and Executive. Let President Uhuru (Kenyatta) call the Jubilee MPs while Raila can call Opposition MPs to discuss VAT and public debt,” Mr Ichungwa said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Divergent views Leaders accompanying the DP gave divergent views on the Government's implementation of the 16 per cent Value Added Tax on fuel products, with some asking the DP and the President to step in while others blamed MPs for the crisis. Alice Wahome (Kandara MP), Kiplangat Mutai (Bureti), Kanini Kega (Kieni) and James Gichuhi (Tetu) said there was need for the Executive to intervene and save Kenyans. “There is need for an urgent meeting on the fuel crisis. Kenyans are angry and suffering with the increase and the matter should be addressed immediately,” Mr Kega said. ALSO READ:

Sonko, Wiper leaders say it’s Kalonzo in 2022 But Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said MPs must find a different way of looking at issues and balance between Government expenditure and revenues. “A government cannot continue to do things the same way we have always done. As MPs, some of us had proposed the Government use the Fuel Levy and turn it into an infrastructure fund to raise money but they refused,” Mr Kuria said. Senator Leader of Majority Kipchumba Murkomen accused legislators of playing to the public gallery on the VAT issue. “Let us be honest as elected leaders; the (National) Assembly was supposed to resolve the situation but did not, now you cry with the public yet you hold the solution within your grasp.” He said MPs should have found a way to solve the tax crisis by postponing some development projects until funds became available.  ALSO READ:

Tale of a Sh24 million Water project as graft, greed erode gains