Imagine being diagnosed with cancer or a damaged liver after long periods of cleaning your living room carpet using ordinary chemicals that you bought at the local shop. Or developing skin burns, or having a throat irritation and breathing problems from your toilet bowl cleaners. ALSO READ:

Cancer to kill 10 million in 2018, experts reveal Or think about losing your eyesight from that small capsule you put among your clothes in the bedroom to keep away moths. According to research findings published on the Cleverland Clinic website, an international non-profit academic medical centre, all this is possible, and it is actually happening. These are part of findings the Kenya Chemical Society (KCS) has brought to the attention of Kenyans to keep families and homes safe. The report finds that even though most household cleaning products and pesticides are safe when properly used, there are also potential risks. Check ingredients Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Following the report, KCS has advised Kenyans to use household chemicals with caution and check the ingredients of the products before buying them. “We wish to make Kenyans aware of these household chemicals. Most importantly, there is need to have the ingredients displayed on the packaging,” said KCS National Secretary Austin Aluoch. Many Kenyans may not be aware, for example, that mixing certain toilet cleaners and washing detergents currently in the market could produce chlorine gas, which can be fatal. ALSO READ:

Family seeks help for daughter who has tumor Finer details of the report reveal that oven cleaners contain lye, which is extremely corrosive and can burn your skin and eyes, and cause severe tissue damage. It can be fatal when swallowed. “When working with oven cleaners, always wear an apron, gloves and safety goggles. Do not breathe in the fumes. Non-toxic oven cleaners without lye are available. Look at the label and select a product that does not contain lye,” read the study. Dish-washing products in your kitchen might also pose a health risk. The researchers found that the main ingredient in automatic and hand dish-washing detergents is phosphate, known to produce skin irritation or burns, and may be poisonous if swallowed. Chemicals used to keep away ants, cockroaches, crickets and other insects may also be dangerous. But the way they are packaged offers a safety net. “Since most insect baits are enclosed in containers, it’s unlikely that you’ll come in contact with the pesticides within them. If you do, wash your hands with plenty of soap and water,” read the report. The researchers also found chemicals in air fresheners, which are thought to cause cancer and brain damage. The chemicals are also strong irritants to the eyes, skin, and throat. ALSO READ:

I love this disease, man declares after his diagnosis of cancer They advised that air fresheners should not be sprayed near open flames, and should only be used in well-ventilated areas. Better still, baking soda, which is not toxic, can be used as an alternative. Furniture cleaners for wooden surfaces may also contain petroleum distillates and oil of cedar, which irritate the skin, eyes, throat, lungs and windpipe. If swallowed, furniture polish can cause nausea and vomiting. Oil-based paints contains organic solvents that can be irritating to eyes and skin, and can cause the skin to crack. “Inhaling paint fumes can result in headaches, nausea, dizziness and fatigue. Frequent exposure to these chemicals can also cause kidney, liver and blood problems,” stated the researchers. The study also noted that swimming pool chloride tablets contain calcium and sodium hypochlorite in higher concentration than those found in other household cleaners. Before they are diluted, these can cause breathing problems and a burning sensation to the eyes and skin. If swallowed, the chemicals can be fatal. Cleaning your car also comes with risks. The researchers found that used motor oil may be contaminated with magnesium, copper, zinc and other heavy metals deposited from the engine. These can cause nerve and kidney damage and are suspected to cause cancer.