Family, friends and world dignitaries gathered in Ghana’s Capital Accra to pay their last respect to fallen ex-UN Chief Dr Koffi Annan. Annan’s wife, Nane Maria and children seized the opportunity at a sendoff ceremony in Accra Military cemetery to eulogise a man once known to the world as global peace ambassador ALSO READ:

World leaders eulogize Kofi Anan in burial ceremony Annan’s daughter Ama Anana Adedeji spoke of her father's pursuit of truth in fighting for peace. "How lucky am I to have a father who makes saying goodbye so hard. We were rewarded with his wisdom," she said. His son Kojo, remembered him as a father who believed in a life of respect, peace and equality. Adding that the greatest tribute that could ever be paid to Annan is to follow his example. Nane Maria, widow of the former UN boss shed tears whilst narrating pleasant moments they shared together. Maria eulogized her husband as 'a man who challenged all people around him to make at least a step for a better world.' She said she ‘thanks God for giving him an extraordinary man who always believed in her strength.’ Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. "My love, you are now back home where you started your long journey but may your wisdom and comparison continue to inspire us and guide us wherever we are," quoted AFP. Annan hailed from Konongo in Ashanti region. Speaking on behalf of the patrilineal family, spokesperson Georgina Darling Ofori said that they had lost a very important member of the family. ALSO READ:

Did you know Kofi Annan played football as an attacking winger? [Photos] According to her, the late Kofi Anan's father, Henry Reginald Anan, was a prominent person in the gold coast who instilled in him the virtues of honesty and humility. In the tribute, a revelation that the late father of Kofi Anan was the first Ashanti region commissioner under the former Prime Minister Dr K. A. Busia was made. Seth Ashie, a friend of the late Koffi at Mfantsipim School, in paying tribute to the respected diplomat, said that Kofi was very political during their school days in Mfantsipim. Seth further said Anan openly opposed the Convention People's Party (CPP) administration then led by Dr Kwame Nkurumah. He added that Anan was referred to as 'Dombo' meaning opposition. Kofi Anan's body was laid to rest at Accra Millitary cemetery.   ALSO READ:

Raila in Ghana for Annan’s burial (Photos)