A family has donated land for the setting up of a snake park in memory of the legendary python, Omieri. The one-acre parcel was donated by relatives of the late James Osumba. Omieri lived on the land belonging to Mr Osumba, who was a primary school teacher, for three months before its death in 1987. ALSO READ:

Thrill as 'Omieri' the mythical python goes to Nyanza Moses Ochieng, Osumba’s second-born son, on Tuesday led residents of Wasare in Nyakach in gifting the land to the Kisumu County government’s department of tourism. He said the donation was in honour of his father, who had wanted to bury Omieri’s remains on the parcel. “As Osumba’s family we are in agreement to donate this land, and we are doing it for our father and Omieri, which became a member of our family before its demise,” said Mr Ochieng. Some residents said they believed the honour to the snake might bring Wasare, and Nyakach as a whole, good tidings. While it was alive, Omieri was believed to bring good luck. Kisumu County Government has promised to commence the snake park project which is expected to boost tourism in the area. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “We have sought Sh2 million for the first phase of the project, and we hope with the support of other relevant government agencies we will have everything rolled out soon,” said Thomas Ouko, the acting tourism chief officer. Mr Ouko said the facility would open up Nyakach economically. “The park will have all the snake species in this region and other tourism attraction products,” he added. ALSO READ:

Giant snake returns to Nyanza Omieri, a giant python, was rescued by Kenya Wildlife Service personnel in 1987 after a fire torched its lair in Wasare. The snake succumbed to its injuries while being treated. Its remains were transferred to the National Museum in Nairobi, where they have been preserved for the past three decades. Ochieng recalled the short stint of the legendary snake on his family's land, which saw his home turned into a tourist attraction site. According to Ochieng, his father protected the snake before informing the Government about it. The Government had promised to build a park for the snake at the site. “When it was rescued (after the fire), the officers who took it promised to bring it back after it healed. Unfortunately it died but still my father wanted it back to give it a decent burial,” said Ochieng.