Kapenguria, the leafy headquarters of West Pokot County better known for the detention cells of Mau Mau heroes Mzee Jomo Kenyatta and his five colleagues in the run up to Kenya’s independence was recently the venue of a three day conference to address the woes of 11 long marginalized frontier Counties. Eight governors and their representatives signed a memorandum of understanding to work together on cross cutting issues encompassing common challenges and opportunities. ALSO READ:

Residents take forced oath 'to reveal witches' The three day conference held under the aegis of aptly named Frontier Counties Development Council (FCDC) listed economic rebirth, buoyed security and re-energized education among its main priority areas in a bid to catch up with the rest of the country. Cattle rustling described by host Governor Prof. John Krop Longapuo as a major hindrance to the region’s economic development was cited as the tinder box for conflicts that have stagnated progress in the region with warring communities overlapping into neighbouring Uganda, South Sudan and Ethiopia. “This age old menace has prevented us from exploiting our resources by scaring away potential investors. It is a vice we must fight by all means at our disposal,” said Prof Lonyangapuo. And supple bullocks symbolizing the area’s wealth and source of agony from rustlers were in attendance too, mowing away their presence nearby as the conference proceeded under huge tents pitched for the purpose. In a move that befuddled many, Prof Longapauo ordered his fellow governors and crowds who included traditional dancers to form a human ring around the young bovines,  none of which had threatening horns for a ceremony that would put a smile on the faces of leaders representing rustling communities from neighboring Uganda. “Each of them will go back home to his people in Uganda with five head of these cattle donated by the Pokot community as a gesture of mutual friendship to put a stop to hostility,” said Prof. Lonyagapuo amid cheers. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 It was all song and dance as traditional chiefs representing pastoral communities from  Kwen, Rukwo, Moroto and Amudat Districts of Uganda lined up to pick the animals that numbered over 60. Mandera County Governor Capt. Ali Roba who is the FCDC Chairman said Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASAL) Counties that FCDC embraces were Kenya’s next frontiers of development with the discovery of oil in Turkana, Wajir and Mandera Counties, gas in Marsabit and Wajir Counties, Coal in Kitui County and massive water deposits across the region. “ASAL lands stand on 67% of Kenya’s land mass with a market population of over 11 million people who unfortunately experience the highest rates of poverty at 70 per cent against the national average of 45 per cent,” said Capt. Roba. ALSO READ:

KenGen to revive stalled projects He described FCDC first mooted in 2014 to help secure better lives for a people deprived of everything from proper sanitation to clean water and education for their children as an idea whose time had come. “We are putting in place efforts that shall yield prosperity for our people and in that respect, FCDC is working closely with development partners  including the World bank, the European Union, USaid, the Swiss Development Corporation (DFID) and  the national Government,” said Capt. Roba. He said devolution had done a lot to pull ASAL Counties out of stagnation with the provision of water improving by 45 per cent. “But areas such as education, health, road transport, access to electricity and security have remained dim and the input of donors can be of much help, hence the relevance of FCDC,” he noted. “On the education front, our counties send less than 100 students to universities and other institutions of higher learning every year, exposing our youth to runaway unemployment and exploitation by the likes of Al Shabaab terror group” lamented Capt. Roba. He asked the Government to speed up the release of the 0.5 equalization fund to help bring previously marginalized areas to levels enjoyed by the rest of the country in water, roads, health facilities, electricity and other basic services. In the same vein, Capt.  Roba thanked the World Bank for its donation of Ksh120 billion to fund infrastructural investments with the potential of immensely transforming the lives of the people. World Bank lead social development expert in Kenya Ms Helen Carlsson Rex explained to the conference how the money would be invested through the North and North Eastern Development Initiative (NEDI) in projects beneficial to the people. ALSO READ:

Police search for man who murdered wife “We have on our focus the  693 kilometre road  connecting  Isiolo and Mandera (A3) inclusive of a fibre optic link, climate smart agriculture, water and sanitation for Wajir and Garissa Counties, refugee and host community development programs, off grid solar energy and cash transfers to the poorest of communities,” averred Ms Carrison Rex. The Council’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Mr Mohamed Guleid said the economic block would help unlock and harness the enormous potential of Northern Kenya for posterity after 50 years of resource denial. He urged the national Government to chip in and help fund projects identified by the Counties. FCDC Counties are Mandera, West Pokot, Isiolo, Wajir, Garissa, Samburu, Lamu, Tana River, Turkana, Marsabit and Baringo.