Migori residents keenly followed the proceedings of a case in which their governor is facing murder charges. Governor Zachary Okoth Obado pleaded not guilty to the murder of Rongo University Student Sharon Otieno. ALSO READ:

Obado’s bodyguard arrested With a power blackout in several parts of South Nyanza for the better part of yesterday, some residents streamed live court proceedings through their mobile phones. At the county headquarters, only a handful of employees were at their work stations, as many stood in small groups discussing the matter. "I simply can't concentrate on my work. I don't know what will befall our governor," said an officer who did not want to be named. Some residents held a demonstration at Uriri shopping centre to protest against Mr Obado's arrest. Two weeks ago there were demonstrations in Migori calling for the prosecution of Sharon’s killers. Residents have been engaged in senatorial campaigns ahead of the by-election slated for October 8, 2018. As Obado took plea, his deputy, Nelson Mwita, was in office chairing a meeting with representatives from the Word Bank. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Live coverage Mr Mwita later retreated to his office more than 200 metres from the governor’s office to watch the live coverage of his boss taking plea before High Court judge Jessie Lesiit. The Deputy Governor later went for lunch, leaving his secretaries who met at the office to have a meal. ALSO READ:

Obado pleads not guilty, detained at Industrial Area Prison Most of staff in the governor’s office kept away. Those in the office declined to respond to any of our questions, instead referring us to private security guards manning the two tightly guarded gates at the county executive offices. Our crew drove to Rapogi, Obado’s rural home, where we met another set of security guards manning the gates to the governor’s home. A woman walking past the gate told The Standard reporters that only a few workers had been allowed into the compound since Obado was arrested. “We have not seen the governor for close to three weeks. We hope the courts will give him a cash bail or bond. The hope is his trial will be fair,” she said. At the Migori Level Four Hospital, medics were busy with their daily routine. A human resource official said everything was moving on as usual. The county communications director, Nicholas Anyuor, said county operations were going on without a hitch.