On October 21 last year, a white helicopter took off from Jarika County Lodge in Nakuru’s Freehold estate on an early morning flight. The occupants of the chopper operated by Flex Air Charters were headed to Narok, where President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Jubilee Party members were scheduled to hold a rally. ALSO READ:

17 killed in South Sudan plane crash But John Ndirangu, Veronicah Muthoni, Anthony Kipyegon, Sam Gitau and their pilot Apollo Malowa never made it to their destination. A few minutes after it was airborne, the aircraft plunged into the salty waters of Lake Nakuru. A rescue operation was swiftly organised but it turned into a search mission when it became apparent that there were no survivors. The bodies of Kipyegon, Malowa and Muthoni were retrieved but despite the divers’ best efforts, it appeared that Ndirangu and Gitau were lost forever in the murky waters. And for their grieving parents, Florence Nyambura and William Ngugi, the pain was intensified by the fact that despite losing hardworking children who had showed great potential, they did not have any bodies to bid a fond farewell. Ms Nyambura said after a requiem mass held on the lake shores on February 10, she had not received any further communication or report from any of the investigating authorities. Malowa's mother, Dorothy Malowa, said although little had been disclosed to the families, it seemed the Government wanted to conduct a forensic audit of the bodies and wreckage. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Autopsy reports The families of the crash victims whose bodies were recovered are also yet to receive autopsy reports; the burial permits only indicate that they died as a result of an accident in Nakuru. “It is upon the Government to say what it is waiting for. For now, there is nothing much to say,” said Ms Malowa. ALSO READ:

Airline fires pilots involved in plane crash The pilot’s mother said the investigation report could have been delayed because of the two missing bodies. It takes at least seven years for the Government to declare such deaths because it is believed they might have swum to safety. Jonathan Kertich, an officer with the National Disaster Operation Centre, who was in charge of the rescue mission, said investigations were handed over to the police and Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS). Mr Kertich said police were expected to regularly patrol the park, adding that Government investigators were mandated to probe aircraft accidents. “The disaster department left the lake and handed over to concerned individuals, including airport investigators who were to give a report on the crash.” Catherine Wambani, a senior KWS warden at Lake Nakuru National Park, said she was not aware of any search since she took over office in June. And Nakuru Divisional Criminal Investigation Officer Jeremiah Musyoki declined to share any information, only saying they had finished their probe. ALSO READ:

Passenger plane skids off runway, disrupts flight schedule (Photos) “We concluded investigations and I handed it to the aircraft investigators in Nairobi.” A report on the helicopter crash has also not been concluded, according to aircraft investigator Mathias Ombasa. Aircraft regulations Mr Ombasa told The Standard by phone that according to aircraft regulations, the agency is expected to release the report before 12 months are over, and if this is not possible, issue an interim statement about the status of the final report. He said their work was limited to investigating and establishing what might have contributed to the crash. Ombasa revealed that an advocate for the families had written a letter on September 17 seeking release of the disaster report. The agency is expected to respond within 21 days. “Investigations are still on and when done, we shall share with family members and later with the public. We have also received a letter that we shall respond to,” he said. In a December 2017 interview, Ombasa said important components of the helicopter had been found and were being used to determine what might have triggered the crash. On matters compensation, Ombasa said the families were supposed to lodge a claim with the aircraft insurer. ALSO READ:

Chopper crash lands in Boni Forest- [Photos] “Compensation is done by the insurance company. The aircraft and passengers might have been insured,” he said. But without an official report, the families cannot lodge any insurance claims.