  Njuri Ncheke elders from Imenti South met Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and pledged to work with him. Led by Mr David Gituma and Prof Albert Mugambi, the elders said their visit and meeting with the Kanu chairman carried lots of significance. They asked the senator to come out and meet his people. ALSO READ:

Two allies, one seat but who will Joho support? “We are ready and we were even before. It is only that we had not met you, these are blessings and we here to assure you of our support,” said Gachaura James Mirienga, who serves as a supreme council member of Njuri Ncheke. Mirienga said doors were now open and the Senator could visit Meru since the way had been prepared for him. “Be tough and stand firm, we are here to bless you and we will take care of you just as former  President Daniel Moi took care of the Ameru community,” he said during the meeting in Nakuru yesterday. The elders thanked Gideon for meeting them on short notice delivered to him on Friday evening. Gituma, the elders’ chairperson, said they had chosen to support the senator because he has the potential to lead. “We respect you, we are together and we will support you. We will not make noise but we are working and when your time comes, knock and the door will be opened,” said Gituma. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Prof Mugambi said their people will rally behind Gideon when he will seek their support. “He is equal to the task,” said Mugambi. The Kanu chairman told the elders he was ready to work with the people of Meru and that the meeting with them served as an entry point to the area. “I now have the permission to enter Meru and work with the people. We will work together towards improving their lives. I am ready,” he said. ALSO READ:

Darkest day in Kenya’s history revisited He assured the elders that he will “blow the whistle” when the right time comes. “We support the fight against corruption. Graft must be eradicated and those responsible should carry their own cross. Let them face the full force of the law,” he said. War on graft Were it not for corruption, Gideon said, Kenya would be a rich nation. The elders said they would visit Senator Moi at his Kabarak home on a planned date to discuss more and give thanks to retired President Moi whom they praised for his service to the nation. The senator said arrangements will be made for them to visit.