 Police officers have impounded bhang worth Sh2 million in a homestead in Keumbu Division. ALSO READ:

Mob lynches police imposter Kisii Division boss Francis Nguli told journalists one suspect had been arrested and nine sacks of bhang confiscated. The raid was led by Kisii Central OCS Eliud Kimwele and Kisii Deputy Administration Police Commandant Patrick Wafula. A source claimed the suspects were in communication with a senior Administration Police officer in Kisii, who was helping them evade the dragnet. The police source told The Standard that a senior police officer who was recently posted to Kisii had cracked the whip on drug peddlers and that some officers who had been benefiting from the illegal business were not happy. Kisii County Police Coordinator Hassan Abdi said any officer caught aiding criminals would face the full force of the law. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “There will be no mercy on such officers. We must remain firm in dealing with such criminals because drugs affect everybody in society.” In April this year, police arrested two suspects with bhang estimated at Sh5 million. A contingent of regular and Administration Police officers arrested the two in a raid on a house in Nyamataro, Marani sub-county, less than three kilometres from Kisii town. The suspects were taken to court but were later released in unclear circumstances. ALSO READ:

Police brutality is back, and we should all be afraid However, Mr Abdi and other top county security bosses intervened and had the suspects arraigned. Spot check The bhang was packed in the boots and rear seats of two cars. The cars are at Rioma Police Station. Drug abuse is a serious problem in the area. Youths in Kisii town smoke bhang openly. The areas hardest hit by the drug menace are the town’s dumping site, several spots along Nyakomisaro River and the Capital-Oshwal Street roundabout. Bhang peddlers are said to position themselves in various parts of the town posing as street urchins. They sell the drug mostly to commercial sex workers and boda boda operators.  ALSO READ:

Uganda police storm Migingo, lower Kenya’s flag