Undated photo of Elvinah Moracha a student at Sengera SDA Secondary school who was found murdered at Bomachoge Borabu Kisii County on Monday morning.[Photo Sammy Omingo/Standard] A Form Four student has been killed just days before starting the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education. ALSO READ:

I put all my money in education: BYOB winner The body of Elvinah Moracha, 17, was on Sunday night found dumped in a fish pond belonging to a villager and located less than a kilometre from their home at Mariba village in Bomachoge Borabu, Kisii County. By yesterday, officers from Kenyenya Police Station were still pursuing the killers of the Sengera SDA Secondary student. Emma Moraa, a sister to Elvinah, told The Standard at their home that on the fateful day they had supper together before Moracha retreated to her bedroom. Revision “I went to bed at around 11pm and left her still doing some revision. I woke up the following morning only to realise that my sister was not in the house,” said Moraa. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Alice Moracha, Elvinah’s mother, told The Standard they suspected her former boyfriend was behind the killing. “The boda boda operator, who was her former boyfriend, must have lured her to her death. They had differed some time back and this might have annoyed him,” she said. She urged police to thoroughly investigate the killing to ensure the family gets justice. “She was a lovely and joyful girl. The killers of my daughter shouldn’t be left to go scot-free,” she said. Students and teachers at Sengera SDA mourned Moracha, with principal Enock Nyambega noting that Elvinah had not gone back to school for third term. “She had school fees arrears but we were yet to send her away. It is painful to lose a child but more agonising that her killers murdered her at a time she was set to sit her final examinations,” said Mr Nyambega. Enough time Kenyenya OCPD Isaac Thuranira said they needed time to carry out investigations, but promised to ensure the suspects were arrested and charged. Mr Thuranira said nothing was stolen from the student. Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ong’era called for immediate arrest of suspects. “It doesn’t make sense that somebody decided to murder an innocent soul. Killing a woman in cold blood should be the last recourse that any sane individual should think of,” she said. According to Ms Ong’era, the country was losing young and promising Kenyans on excuse of love relationships turned sour. 