A postmortem examination on the late Sharon Otieno’s body has shed some light on her tragic murder. The autopsy which was carried out on Friday has revealed that Sharon was strangled, stabbed eight times and possibly raped by her assailants. Her unborn baby also stabbed. ALSO READ:

Man at epicentre of Sharon's murder mystery Sharon who had been abducted on Monday night was found dead near Kodera Forest in Homa Bay County on Tuesday evening. 26-year-old Sharon is said to have died of excessive bleeding from the stab wounds. She had been stabbed four times at the back, three times on the neck and once on the left side of her abdomen. Sharon Otieno was seven months pregnant when she died. The stab she took to the abdomen harmed the foetus and led to its death. A DNA test will be done on the baby. Government Chief Pathologist Johansen Oduor established that there were elements of rape surrounding Sharon’s death. Used condoms were also found around where her body was discovered. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Sharon’s family rejected lawyer Cliff Ombeta, turning him away from Rachuonyo Level Four Hospital where the postmortem was done. He was there to represent the interests of Migori Governor Okoth Obado’s interests who is alleged to have had a relationship with the late Ms Otieno. The bereaved family insisted that Sharon’s body be removed from Rachuonyo South Sub-County Hospital morgue in Oyugis and transferred to Kirindo mortuary. They said they were not comfortable with the body lying at the former morgue. There was a crown of about 100 people waiting to view the body at the mortuary but they were denied a chance. ALSO READ:

This man Obado Speaking on behalf of the family, Homa Bay MP Peter Kaluma made it clear that no burial would take place until Ms Otieno’s assailants are apprehended. The late Sharon was pursuing a diploma in medical records and information at Rongo University, Migori County.