France based cosmetic company; Yves Rocher has opened its new Lab store at The Hub to target the fast-growing Kenyan middle class population. The store counts 3 beauty advisors and more than 800 product references to ensure a global beauty offer respecting women and nature. Yves Rocher, which is known for its premium botanical beauty products and its expertise in Face Care will become the new inescapable place for women committed to plants and beauty. As a Botanist, Harvester, Manufacturer and Retailer, Yves Rocher controls the entire life cycle of its products, from the plant to the skin, of its 30 million clients in over 100 countries. This allows the brand to guarantee quality, ensure traceability and deliver an affordable product. In Kenya, each product category is available and the brand distributes more than 800 references starting with a price point of 500/-. An accessible brand Yves Rocher started its journey in Kenya in 2016 and has since opened two stores: at Village Market and Westgate Mall. The brand has also recently opened their first kiosk at Junction Mall. Through the expertise of their Beauty Advisors, the brand delivers a service of excellence and an outstanding experience. Yves Rocher’s philosophy is about understanding women’s beauty needs by offering a free skin assessment thus enabling the brand to offer the best service and product. A unique Brand Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. It was in 1959 in La Gacilly, in the heart of Brittany, France, that Mr. Yves Rocher’s passion for plants was born. A pioneering botanist, he developed plant-based beauty products in the attic of his family home, which then became his first laboratory. He invented Botanical Beauty, inspired by nature, that creates beauty solutions and delivers effective results with the highest respect for Women and Nature. Through 55 hectares of Organic Farming fields in La Gacilly and across a network of 250 botanical sources, experts extract the most powerful botanical active ingredients from plants to offer high-quality and customized solutions for every skin type, while protecting the environment. A Committed Brand Each day, the Yves Rocher Brand is committed to providing natural, global and affordable beauty offerings based on its skin expertise and respect for nature. Since its creation in 1991, The Yves Rocher Foundation has championed to help those committed to the earth’s well-being. The foundation promotes environmental protection through the worldwide Plant for Planet operation that was created in partnership with Kenya and Nobel Prize winner the late Wangari Mathai. Since its creation, the foundation has planted more than 69 million trees.