  Police have arrested seven suspected criminals in a raid on an abandoned building in Milimani estate. Sources said the suspects had been implicated in a number of robberies and rapes targeting residents of the nearby Nyalenda slum. ALSO READ:

Child killed over domestic issues A human rights activist, Boniface Ogutu, yesterday said a gang of rapists waylaid and raped victims after robbing them. The raid on the building, which has been abandoned for several years, followed claims that the gangsters sometimes held their victims hostage in the hideout. “Some victims neither go to hospital nor report to the police because they fear talking about their ordeal. Hence they suffer in silence,” said Mr Ogutu, adding that some sought help from herbalists. Mary Anyango, a resident, said criminals usually ambush people walking on a path next to the abandoned property and rob them. “Deep in the night we normally hear screams but no one can intervene. We have reported the matter to the police but the gang continues to terrorise us,” said Ms Anyango. She asked police to step up surveillance in order to improve security. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Fishmongers targeted Anyango added that the gangsters regularly targeted fishmongers who worked late hours at the nearby Dunga beach and used the route on their way home. Another resident, Ken Oketch, said some of the rescued victims claimed they were attacked by youths who dragged them into the bushes after gagging them to stop their screams. ALSO READ:

End of the road for woman who chopped man's organ, threw it in toilet “They manhandle the victims, rape and rob them of property and money before leaving them on the path at the mercy of other passers-by,” said Mr Oketch. Kisumu Central OCPD Meshack Kiptum said that during the Saturday raid, police found drug paraphernalia in the building. Mr Kiptum, however, victims had yet to record statements and appealed to them to come forward. “The suspects will be arraigned on Monday on charges of preparing to commit felonies and being drunk and disorderly,” he said. The OCPD added that police had beefed up security in the area and appealed to residents to work together to clear the bushes around the property. 