  The Government has introduced new rules to curb loss of public funds and stop the stalling of mega projects. The procedures will see all multi-million shilling projects initiated by the State and county governments go through tough scrutiny before implementation. ALSO READ:

What we must all do to stop the looting frenzy The measures developed by the National Treasury are contained in a draft public investment management framework. Currently, the country does not have guidelines for consistent and comprehensive project appraisal. The proposed guidelines come barely two months after President Uhuru Kenyatta froze all new State projects so that the ongoing ones can be completed. Uhuru’s July 20 directive to all accounting officers is believed to have affected projects worth Sh410 billion in an effort to curtail wastage of public resources. If adopted, the national and county governments will be required to strictly observe key procedures in selecting projects, appraisal, monitoring, evaluation and reporting for prudent use of public funds. “The guidelines are aimed at supporting expenditure control and spending by providing standard processes to ensure that only priority projects are financed and fully implemented,” reads the document. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Treasury cites inflated expenses, bloated project portfolio, dubious funding and stalled projects as factors leading to poor use of budgets and delay in economic growth targets. Citizens are required to submit their views about the draft regulations to the exchequer before September 14, 2018 via email pimunit@treasury.go.ke. In the proposed guidelines national and county treasuries will be required to set up public investment management departments to oversee proper, efficient and effective implementation of projects. ALSO READ:

The graft dilemma: Eye for eye or blanket amnesty? Public participation will also be mandatory in the identification of projects. An accounting officer in charge of a project will be held responsible for its success or failure. The national and county exchequers will also be required to approve new projects, monitor, track and report on the status of their implementation with the help of the accounting officer.