Just a few days after closing a public toilet in Wundanyi town, the Taita-Taveta County government Saturday closed the market, locking out hundreds of traders. Saturday morning, traders woke up to find the market’s three main gates locked. ALSO READ:

UN agency involved in travel scandal Trade department officials said they had closed the market due to environmental and health concerns. They said the Environment department had failed to collect tonnes of garbage in the town, putting the lives of traders in danger. “We have taken action to safeguard the interest of the traders. We will reopen the market after the Department of Environment and Natural Resources remove all the uncollected garbage,” said an officer who identified himself as Mr Masha. The traders’ chairperson Jezrel Mbogho said they had incurred huge losses following the market’s closure. “There was no notice to close the market and our perishable goods are now rotting. We will sue the county government for compensation,” said Mbogho. A hand written notice placed at the doors of the toilets for both men and women said they were overflowing with human waste, prompting the closure. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “Choo imejaa (the toilets have filled up),” the notice read. A trader, Humphrey Mcharo, said the public toilet used by more than 300 traders at the market and motorists at Wundanyi bus stage had been closed for one week. He said they had been paying cess to the county government, yet they do not get essential services. “We are being forced to go back home to answer calls of nature. It is badly affecting our work,” said Mcharo. Others said they had been relieving themselves in the nearby bushes. ALSO READ:

Shock of young learners crowded in pitiful classes “We have constantly complained to the relevant authorities to have the matter addressed, but in vain,” said a trader who identified herself only as Dorothy.