  Fare increment takes effect in different bus stations in Nairobi following the government’s move to implement the 16 percent VAT on fuel. The fuel prices were hiked as from Saturday making the transport sector increase the transport fare despite passengers complains. ALSO READ:

Matatus hike fares over tax A spot check at various bus stations showed that vehicles heading to different destinations outside Nairobi have increased their fares. Most of the shuttles boarded at Ronald Ngala Street heading to western Kenya have increased their fares by Sh200. “Initially, we used to charge Sh1,000 to Kisumu and Kakamega but with the increase in fuel prices, we are now charging Sh1,200,” said Fredrick Ochieng, who works with the Sasaline Shuttle. For such shuttles with 14 to 18 passengers, passenger are not given a chance to bargain. “The destination is Kakamega and the amount charged is Sh1,200, whether you alight at Nakuru, Kericho or wherever,” added Ochieng. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Ochieng said that they have received several complaints from the passengers regarding the fare increase and some opt to look for other vehicles with cheaper fares. “The move by the government has forced us to do this, there is nothing we can do but increase the fares as well,” said Ochieng. At Machakos Country Bus station, the same scenario was witnessed. Here, the flat rate for travelling was initially Sh500, but now it has been increased to Sh700. ALSO READ:

Matatu owners to Uhuru: Order lifestyle audit on traffic police “In the past we used to allow fares as low as Sh500 or Sh600 to Western Kenya, however from today onwards the last price that one will be required to pay is Sh700, it is the lowest we can go,” said Ben Oluchina who operates the Climax Buses from Nairobi to Butere. “To go to Butere on this bus, one will be required to pay a maximum of Sh1,000 and a minimum of Sh800 after seriously bargaining,” he added. In Nairobi, the Matatu Owners Association Chairman, Simon Kimutai had earlier announced that the fares would increase by between Sh10 and Sh30. He said that the increase would take effect immediately the government implements the 16 percent levy on petroleum products. 