Politician Robert Kyagulanyi, better known as pop star Bobi Wine, will jet back to Uganda today, setting the stage for a showdown. Kyagulanyi, 36, returns home from the United States after finishing medical treatment for injuries he said he sustained when Ugandan police detained and beat him. ALSO READ:

Inside Ugandan fights: The Head of State and ghetto 'president' The singer-turned-politician has become a lightning rod for opposition sentiment against President Yoweri Musaveni, who has ruled the country since 1986. After his arrest, police and soldiers violently put down protests against his treatment. But even as he prepare for his return, authorities in Uganda were also doing the same. Police yesterday warned that any welcoming rally for the MP would be unlawful. Police said they expected Bobi Wine to abide by traffic laws. Security agencies had received intelligence of “countrywide mobilisation” to welcome him at the Entebbe International Airport, police said. Only his immediately family would be allowed to receive the MP at the airport, and he would be “availed security” to go to his home, police added. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The government’s media centre yesterday tweeted details about the police’s press conference. “No member of his family has worked out a mechanism for these intended processions and assemblies as provided for in the law,” it said in a tweet. “The police and other security agencies have intelligence of countrywide mobilisation of different groups of people who are being distributed with red T-shirts and posters calling upon them to participate in processions and assemblies to receive the MP.” ALSO READ:

Museveni blames noisy church for failure to arrest Kirumira’s killers Police provided guidelines that Bobi Wine is expected to follow “in order to maintain peace, law and order”. According to the media centre police said: “On his arrival, the MP will be received at Entebbe International Airport by his immediate family. He will be availed security from the airport to his home.” Police said they would ensure law and order for all road users and maintained that “there shall be no unlawful rallies, processions and assemblies”. “Any activity that entails a public gathering must be in conformity with the provisions of Public Order Management Act (POMA),” they added. Not to be cowed, Bobi Wine hit back in a tweet, saying: “Well, for your information, no single family member will receive me at the airport.” He added: “I am a free Ugandan with the right to move freely in my country. The police has no business telling me who receives me and who cannot or where I go and where I cannot. This impunity must stop now. Wama see you friends tomorrow.” The MP - who has been charged with treason - also gave a glimpse of his itinerary. ALSO READ:

The fearless Ugandan policeman who foresaw his death “I will be received by friends, colleague leaders and artistes. I will then go and see my sick grandmother briefly at Najjanankumbi from where I will head to Kamwokya for lunch with my family (brothers and sisters) before I go to my home in Magere,” he said. The reggae star, who entered Parliament as an independent MP last year, was arrested last month after some of his supporters allegedly stoned Museveni’s car. Last week, Bobi Wine said he wanted to return home to continue to call upon all Ugandans to stand up for what they believe in. “There is a treason charge against me and I believe many more charges will come,” he told AFP in Washington. “I know I could go to prison, I still could be hanged, but also know I could be assassinated.”