The body of a missing nine-year-old girl has been found in Gitoro Forest, Meru County. The girl, Maribel Kapolon was daughter to Senior Resident Magistrate of Githongo Law Courts Ms Caroline Kemei. ALSO READ:

Two suspects arrested in Kayole, grilled over murder of Sharon She had been kidnapped on September 6 while walking from school. Witnesses said she was summoned by someone who knew her before rushing to his car. She was not seen since then. She had been dropped by a school bus and was walking to her home when the incident happened. Witnesses said Maribel was walking with three other pupils of Consolata Primary in Meru when a stranger called her by her name. The girl rushed to the car of the stranger leaving the other children who walked away. Police explained that the girl had been called in a similar manner by people who purported to be her relatives. “A day before her kidnap, someone claimed to be her uncle. Another man then called her the following day and she ran towards him and we assume she knew him,” said a police officer aware of the probe. A search on the girl was then mounted with police and the family appealing for any information that would lead to her whereabouts. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. It was not until September 15 evening when police were called and informed of a decomposing body of the girl that had been spotted in a forest in the area. Officers who arrived at the scene said she had one shoe and the body had decomposed. She was still in her school uniform when the body was discovered. The body was moved to the mortuary. Police say they are yet to establish the motive of the kidnap and subsequent killing. “We don’t know if it is related to her parents’ work or if it was a domestic issue. We are investigating to know if the killers made demands,” said one of the officers. ALSO READ:

Police turn to digital methods for real-time crime reporting DCI George Kinoti has said they have arrested a suspect in connection with the murder of the girl. “We suspect a domestic issue that led to this. We are interrogating one suspect,” he said. Detectives are still investigating the incident.