  The family spokesman of slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno claims excessive media coverage of the tragedy has killed Sharon's aunt. Sharon's uncle, Joshua Okong’o, has told of how his sister Debora Ouma fainted and died at their Kokuro Village home in Awendo Sub County, Migori County at about 1am today. ALSO READ:

This man Obado Sharon was abducted alongside Nation Journalist Barack Oduor in Rongo town on Monday. Her body was found at Obisa Village in Homa Bay County on Monday night. Okong’o said the sister was not sick before but fainted after learning of how the media was reporting and what politicians were saying about Sharon’s murder. “I was informed early to today that Debora had died and this resulted from trauma over information (sic) about Sharon’s death. Her body was taken to Rapcom mortuary in Awendo town,” said Okong’o. And as, Okong'o accuses the media and politicians of blowing the matter out of proportion the other side of Sharon is emerging. Okong'o has confirmed that Sharon was married to secondary school teacher Benard Okutae with whom she had a boy and two girls. Okong'o is the elder brother of Sharon’s mother Melida Auma. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Teacher Okuta is said to be resident of Kamagambo in Rongo Sub County, Migori County. “Let it be clear that Sharon was a married lady. It was out of the marriage that she got the three children,” said Okong’o. The 26-year-old medical statistics diploma student died while expecting her fourth child. ALSO READ:

Police: Sharon could have been raped However, it was not clear whether Sharon and the teacher were still married at the time of her death. On Tuesday, her mother told journalists that she lived with the daughter. She described Sharon as an obedient daughter who would be home early before sunset whenever she left for any business. “Sharon was not used to coming back home late in the evening. That is why I was disturbed by her absence at home and her phone that was not going through at 8pm after telling me that she was meeting Governor Obado’s PA Michael Onyamo,” Melida said on Tuesday morning. When asked whether Sharon and Okuta were still living together, Okong’o said he was unaware and could not talk about it. He said what he knew about Sharon’s marriage was her children and the husband’s name. “Sharon used to bring her children to my home. She informed me about her marriage but the other details can be discussed later,” said Okong’o. ALSO READ:

Slain Student had massive fee problem Addressing journalists at Sharon’s home at Magare Village in Homa Bay County, Okong’o accused the media and politicians of blowing the matter out of proportion. He also blamed politicians of organising protests after Sharon’s death.