A poll of 800 managers found that a number of employers will take women less seriously after they return from maternity leave Getting pregnant is holding women back in a fifth of workplaces, a new study reveals. ALSO READ:

Malkia Strikers squad ready to fly Kenyan flag high A survey by the Young Women's Trust found that one in five managers admit that if a woman is pregnant or has children it has an impact on decisions about whether to promote them. The same number said that pregnancy is frowned upon in their organization within the first year of employment. The poll of over 800 managers also showed that some employers admitted that women were taken less seriously in their workplace when they returned from maternity leave. Young Women's Trust chief executive Carole Easton said: "The level of discrimination that Young Women's Trust has uncovered against young mothers who are in work or looking for jobs is shocking. "It is in everyone's interest to help young mothers who want to work. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. "They have a huge amount to contribute to their workplaces and many want to be financially independent and support their families. "Tackling discrimination would benefit young mums, businesses and the economy as a whole." "Employers should value young mums' contributions to their workplaces and do more to accommodate them, including by offering more flexible and part-time working opportunities." ALSO READ:

Firm poised to get banking licence Pregnancy and maternity discrimination is when your employer treats you unfairly because you’re pregnant or because you've recently had a baby. As a result of this, you end up suffering a disadvantage - for example, you're dismissed or are refused a promotion. Thankfully, Acas says you do have rights to this under pregnancy and maternity discrimination rules. This law lasts for a specific period of time which is called the protected period - that starts from when you become pregnant and ends when you return to work. Examples include being dismissed because your employer says they can't afford to pay you statutory maternity pay or being dismissed from training opportunities because you're soon to go on maternity leave. The Equality Act says you’ve been treated unfavourably if you've been denied your maternity rights. This includes the right to reasonable time off work for antenatal care and having your pay protected while you're on leave. If you can prove you have been treated unfavourably, you're well within your rights to take the company to an employment tribunal or a court. ALSO READ:

Sweden: Kenyan women stars are picking up professional football