  Uasin Gishu County residents are excited following news that they will soon enjoy free Wi-Fi in Eldoret town. Speaking to The Standard, ICT, Trade and Industrialization county executive Dr. Emily Kogos said the county has identified two spots in town where they would install the wireless high-speed Internet and network connections. ALSO READ:

Parliament, CA tussle over dominance report “In this financial year 2018/19 the county government has identified two places at the Kenya National Library services, Uasin Gishu Branch and the Nandi Park as hot spots with free WI-FI access points,” said Dr. Kogos. She noted that they were partnering with institutions of higher learning and other institutions to ensure that they are up to date with the latest technology. “ICT is an always evolving sector that one cannot claim they know it all. By partnering with institutions of higher learning you are able to get the latest and well informed information on what is happening in the field and how best to approach service delivery,” she added. Benjamin Letting a resident lauded the project saying that it would be of great help to the people. "This will greatly help our people. It will enable our people access the internet for free without having to pay for it as it has been in the past. They can download stuff and communicate whenever they need to over the net," said Mr. Letting. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Paul Kirwa a youth noted that the WI-Fi would enable the youth to get jobs and thus gain a living. "There are many jobs on the internet such as online writing and marketing. The fact that we have been paying for data bundles has hindered us because sometimes we cannot afford that. With the free Wi-Fi, we can work all day and do so much and at the end of the day. We will have something to eat and take home," said Kirwa. Dr. Kogos explained that the introduction of technology in the different sectors of trade had made services easier, quick and convenient for the residents. ALSO READ:

Police shoot in air to scare away irate locals Last year, the county introduced a cashless system where the people pay their parking fees via M-Pesa through a pay bill number. She noted that the country was introducing paperless payment systems adding that they were also establishing ICT centres in the sub counties. “The County Government has already established four ICT centers in four Sub-Counties which has eased operation within the County hence bringing services closer to the people. We are in the process of establishing other ICT resource centers across all the wards in the County,” added the executive.