Migori Governor Okoth Obado is currently being interrogated by Senior DCI officers in Kisumu over the kidnapping and subsequent murder of University Student Sharon Otieno. Mr Obado, who has remained silent on the matter, most likely on the advice of his lawyers, even after he was mentioned over his alleged relationship with the student, was eventually ordered to report to the regional DCI headquarters in Kisumu. ALSO READ:

More questions emerge as late Sharon’s life story revealed He arrived in a convoy of  three  vehicles  and was immediately ushered  into a room where he is currently being questioned about  the death of the Rongo University student who was  even months pregnant when she was kidnapped alongside Nation journalist, Barack Oduor. We have established that Mr Oduor is also waiting to be interrogated for the second time by the DCI officers. Mr Oduor was driven to Kisumu from Nairobi where he has been ever since. According to him, Oduor said he escaped death by a whisker after he jumped out of the kidnappers' speeding car at Nyangweso market along the Homa Bay-Kisumu road. "Yes, the journalist is also here, waiting to be interrogated again,” said a source in Kisumu. As Mr Obado recorded a statement, his aides waited outside the police offices. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Background Sharon Otieno and Nation journalist Barack Oduor were kidnapped moments after being lured out of Graca Hotel in Rongo around 7.35 p.m by Migori Governor Okoth Obado’s aide Michael Oyamo. Oyamo has since been arrested and is being arraigned in court today to face charges. ALSO READ:

Sharon was mysterious even to family and friends In his words, he was meeting Oyamo to discuss a case in which Sharon said a politician had impregnated her and refused to take responsibility. According to him, it was then they were abducted and bundled into a car. He jumped off the speeding car and ran into homes as the abductors pursued him. He later recorded his statement at a local police station. The body of Sharon was found dumped in a forest hours later.