Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and other area leaders and Lapsset officials, at a Monday meeting on the Vision 2030 project which will pass through sections of Meru. [Photo: Standard] Land owners along the Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) corridor may lose their parcels to speculators, Meru leaders have said. ALSO READ:

Graft charges against three county officials amended Speculators, the leaders said, had invaded the areas and conspired with unscrupulous land officials to rip off the locals. More than 90 per cent of land on the Lapsset corridor has no titles. The speculators are said to have already raided Nyambene. Government officials, among them Lapsset Chairman Titus Ibui and National Land Commission’s Silas Kinoti, were in Meru to sensitise area leaders on the planned acquisition of land for the project. Among those present at the meeting were Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, his deputy Titus Ntuchiu, Senator Mithika Linturi, Speaker Joseph Kaberia and area MPs and MCAs. Ministry of Lands Principal Secretary Nicholas Muraguri and Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung'aro were also present. Lack of land ownership documents among residents has worried leaders, but they have vowed to ensure speculators do not deprive locals of their birthright. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. The leaders said only residents who rightly claim ownership of parcels would be compensated. The Lapsset will pass through the area bordering Isiolo and Tigania West, Igembe Central and Igembe North. True owners ALSO READ:

Villagers kill man in family land feud Mr Murungi said most of the land in the targeted areas was privately owned and there is need to establish its true owners. “Speculators have started moving in. We would like the (national) government to stop illegal surveyors in the area; to stop speculation which is going on now,” said Murungi. He underscored the need to quickly give residents title deeds. “We have all agreed to support it and to fast-track the issuance of title deeds so that people along the corridor can be paid compensation and the project can start as soon as possible. We have given it (Lapsset) a very strong endorsement,” the governor added. Mr Ntuchiu said Lapsset would be of great economic value for Meru. He reiterated the devolved unit’s commitment to work with the national government to identify real owners of affected parcels. Mr Linturi called for prompt compensation of those to be affected. “Payment can be made even without title deeds, in good faith,” he said. Linturi said those who had lived in the affected areas for long knew one another and were in a good position to know the land owners for the purpose of compensation. “Our people should be compensated promptly and justly, to eliminate the speculators who are going around,” he added. Tigania West MP John Mutunga and County Assembly Majority Leader Victor Karithi urged residents to lodge claims with the new lands office at the AP Camp at Kandebene.  ALSO READ:

D-Day for Embakasi land owners to verify documents 