The battle between Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria and business tycoon Peter Munga over the control of water firms has spilled onto the airwaves. The county government has been running radio advertisements warning customers against paying their water bills to five companies until the governor issues fresh directions. ALSO READ:

Water firm wants seized equipment back The firms are Murang’a South Water and Sanitation Company (Muswaco), Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco), Gatamathi, Kahuti and Gatanga. Speaking at Mugoiri Girls High School during celebrations to mark the institution's 80th anniversary on Friday, Mr Iria said the county assembly was formulating a policy that would place water firms under the county. “There is no going back as the war over water control must be won. Murang’a has 15 permanent rivers and 70 per cent of the residents have no access to water. Our people must have water before onward transmission to Nairobi,” he said. In response, four water companies sponsored a joint advertisement directing their customers to honour their bills to avoid disconnection of water. Only Muswaco has heeded the governor's orders and stopped charging customers in Kandara and Maragua constituencies. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Last month, Iria replaced Mr Munga as Muwasco chairman with Joseph Kimura but Munga went to court seeking orders to stop his ouster. Muwasco Public Relations Officer Jacob Mbuthia said the court had warned the county against interfering with the company's operations. "The advertisement that was placed ties with the court order that we should continue operating until a ruling is made either for us or the county government," Mr Mbuthia said. ALSO READ:

Governors in raging battle for control of water services Informing customers "What the company is doing is legal - informing customers how to pay their bills. There is nothing new. It is what we used to do, sending bills, messages and reminders to customers." Iria said he was working to ensure that the county got 25 per cent of the revenue collected from water consumers in Nairobi. “Murang’a must get a share as it gives out free water from Ndakaini Dam, which is then sold by Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company. Since Turkana gets a share from its oil, Murang’a should benefit from the natural resource.” 