  Amani National Congress (ANC) party has given a one-week ultimatum to nine Members of County Assembly (MCA’s) from Kakamega and Vihiga counties to give reasons why they should not be expelled from the party. This is after the MCAs together with their colleagues from ODM party, Jubilee and United Democratic Party (UDP) visited the Deputy President William Ruto at his Karen home on Thursday and Friday last week. ALSO READ:

Life sentence for father who raped daughter, 1 Four of the nine MCAs are from Kakamega County and the other five from Vihiga County Assembly. In a letter send to the MCAs and signed by the party's secretary general Barrack Muluka, the MCAs are being accused of attending a meeting with leaders from a competing political party whose interests are adversarial to that of ANC. The MCAs are being accused of hatching a scheme to orchestrate the downfall of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi come 2022. Mudavadi is eyeing to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta same as Deputy President William Ruto who is the top contender for the top job. “You will notice that by your presence at the meeting was in defiance of guidance of party organs. It is, therefore, an act of ultimate disobedience for you to have ignored the directions of the party,” Mr Muluka states in the letter. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. He continues: “We are now writing to draw your attention that your actions are in contravention to article 50(3) (1) of the ANC constitution and section 14 of the Political Parties Act 2011. The party is considering taking disciplinary action against you, including expulsion from the party.” The MCAs now have seven days to submit a written explanation showing cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against them. Mr Muluka in his letter further stated that if they will not have given a satisfactory explanation by close of business on September 9 this year, they will be presented to the National Executive Committee (NEC) and the ANC Disciplinary Committee for further action. ALSO READ:

Businesswoman arrested with two infants “By a copy of this letter, we are drawing the attention of this matter to the attention of Registrar of Political Parties for their information, as you are candidate for possible expulsion from the party,” states party of the letter. One of the MCA who anonymity for fear of victimization said at least 20 MCAs went to pay a courtesy call to Mr Ruto and discussed development matters. On 2022 succession politics, Ruto told them that he doesn’t want their support but will sell his manifesto to the electorate. But Butali/Chegulo ward MCA, Kevin Mahelo (a jubilee MCA) who led the delegation to the home of DP Ruto said they went to see him in the spirit of the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. “I don’t see a problem with visiting our political leaders. We will even visit Mr Mudavadi since he is our leader too. The letter written to the nine MCAs should be withdrawn since it has been done out of malice,” said Mr Mahelo. Mr Muluka when reached for comments over the letter was unavailable on phone. Mr Ruto is continuing with his 2022 strategy to ascend to state house by hosting MCAs from different counties. ALSO READ:

Policeman on the run after raping Form 3 girl in cell Ruto met with at least 15 MCAs from Vihiga on last Thursday and previously he met those from Nakuru, Murang’a and Kirinyaga. After hosting the Kakamega MCAs, Ruto together with the MCAs on his twitter account wrote: “It is only through combined effort that leaders can effectively serve and deliver the needs of the people. We must work across party lines to address issues of national interest and unite the country.” 