 Two police officers have been arrested on claims they stole Sh800,000 from a Mali national in an operation in Nairobi. ALSO READ:

Man steals gun from cop then shoots self According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) the officers had initially demanded a bribe from Bathily Abdoulaye. The officers had on September 15 gone to the residence of the foreigner and arrested him. “During the arrest, the officers ransacked his house and took 8,000 US Dollars, Sh83,000,  three Rolex watches each valued at 15,000 US Dollars, his passport and also transferred Sh30,000 from his Mobile phone number to another Mobile phone number,” DCI George Kinoti said. The Mali national then lodged a complaint at the DCI offices over the unprocedural arrest. He reported that the police officers took him to Central Police Station but later released him without official booking in the Occurrence Book. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The officers also apparently solicited for another Sh800,000 bribe which he told them he would give them at an agreed location. It is at this point that the man teamed up with DCI detectives and an ambush was set up at Yaya Centre mall in Nairobi. One suspect identified as Moses Njogu Njagi was arrested and found with the complainant’s passport. ALSO READ:

Magistrate's kidnapped daughter found dead in a forest He then led the Flying Squad detectives to Central Police Station where one of the officers was also seized. The second one was arrested few hours later. They were detained in police custody ahead of their arraignment. Other police officers involved in the corruption scandal are still being sought, police said. This came hours after four other officers were arrested in Olenguruone, Nakuru County after being linked to a robbery incident. This was after a pistol magazine belonging to police was found at the scene of the robbery. The four officers were arrested after a probe was launched and have since been charged in court. Kinoti said they will not spare any rogue officer involved in crime.