  Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho has lauded the introduction of more airlines to Coastal city, saying it will enhance economic fortunes of the region. Mr Joho said mega infrastructure projects such as roads, rail and air connectivity have added allure to the growing importance of the port City of Mombasa. ALSO READ:

Local airline starts flying to Mombasa from Wilson airport The county boss made the remarks recently when he presided over the official launch of early morning flights from Mombasa to Wilson Airport, Nairobi by the low-cost carrier Silverstone Air. Speaking at official launch dinner for tour and travel agents later at the Sarova Whitesands Beach Resort & Spa, Joho pledged his government’s support. “Mombasa is on a rebound. We are seeing a lot of positive developments all geared towards making the common person comfortable,” he said. He said Silverstone Air’s daily flights will give more Kenyans opportunities to explore Mombasa as well as ideal tourist attractions and business centres such as Kisumu, Maasai Mara, Lamu, Diani and Malindi. “I am duly informed that ever since Silverstone Air made a first in launching the only direct air connection linking Mombasa and Kisumu, all the flights are always fully booked,” he said. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Tourism arrivals He noted that Mombasa was picking up in terms of tourism arrivals, adding that the county government was working closely with the State to ensure the region remains attractive. Silverstone Air Sales and Marketing Manager Patrick Oketch said the airline will serve Mombasa with flights terminating or starting at its Wilson Airport hub 16 times a week. It will feature two daily flights on weekdays and three daily flights on weekends. ALSO READ:

Low cost carrier to start early morning flights into and out of Mombasa ‘We shall be deploying our 50 seater Bombardier Dash 8 Q-300 series and the Fokker 50 at an introductory price of Sh4,600 one way,” Oketch said. Kenya Tourist Federation Chairman Mohamed Hersi urged Silverstone Air bosses to expand their operations across the East African Community States. Kenya Coast Tourist Association Chair Victor Shitakah while welcoming the new morning flights, said that it was becoming easier for more Kenyans to afford flying. 