  The Meru Level Five Hospital Chief Executive Officer Joseph Wahome, has dismissed claims that the hospital Radiology Department is not operational. Dr Wahome noted that the radiology unit is one of the diagnostic services the hospital undertakes through four imaging modernity that comprise Convectional Xray, CT-Scan, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Ultrasound which receive approximately 500, 40, 60, and 200 patients respectively. ALSO READ:

Why your hospital has no drugs He added that they also provide about 20 and 40 OPG and Mammogram services respectively on a daily basis. He said those spreading the false information should stop misleading the public. "It is good to note that the facility is a teaching and referral institution and various specialists are available for specialized services. We have people on call at any time of the day to attend to patients on both the clinical and non-clinical areas,” said Dr Wahome. He said that services provided are quality and affordable based on commercial rates as provided in the government policy through the Ministry of Health. “The hospital is also a host of other clinical management services, with a dedicated team who attends to patient and are much willing to go further in training due to increasing calls for scientific discernment revealed every time to promote and build good health,” he said Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. In the recent past there have been reports that the Radiology unit at the facility has broken down and residents where seeking services at private facilities. On congestion he said the County Government in Collaboration with the National Government have plans to put up the ward blocks to cater for the increasing numbers of patients from Meru and the neighbouring Counties. The CEO also assured the public that drugs are dispensed to patients below market price. He gave a practical example where insulin is sold at Sh500 and above in private hospitals against Sh200 in the facility. ALSO READ:

Professionals vow to block contract extension for director of public health 