The Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) will embark on a restructuring plan to strengthen its electoral processes and grassroots leadership ahead of 2022. The party hopes to cure the chaotic party primaries that dog it every election cycle leading to disquiet and internal rebellion. ALSO READ:

Raila in Ghana for Annan’s burial (Photos) According to party chairman John Mbadi, the ODM leadership wants to adopt better nominations methods in the next elections. Divisive nominations “We are looking at all avenues, including but not limited to issuing direct nominations tickets three months to the polls or maintaining universal suffrage,’’ Mbadi said. Mbadi said ODM is keen on increasing its national representation ahead of the 2022 polls. “ODM wants to change the leadership of Parliament by creating more electoral reforms and people-centered democratic values. Its not easy, but we are working on it,” he said. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “We are keen on expanding the party’s support in counties and constituencies,’’ he added. The party is awaiting a task force report on electoral reforms and remedies on how it can reinvent itself ahead of the crucial 2022 polls. So far, a team constituted to audit its electoral performance in the 2017 elections is compiling a report that will be handed to ODM’s top leadership soon, Mbadi said. A team of experts led by Catherine Mumma was picked to conduct a comprehensive review of nominations and elections rules and party structures. ALSO READ:

Lusaka to represent Uhuru at Annan burial in last minute changes Mumma’s team was also charged with the task of reviewing party ideology, electoral platforms and coalition building and management. Other members are Larry Gumbe, Irshad Sumra, Alfelt Gunda and Tony Moturi, who is the secretary. Rigging claims According to ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna, the team was given 90 days to present a report. It still has one month to conclude its work. “They are also to consider and review the party’s legal, policy and institutional framework governing the electoral processes,’’ Sifuna said. The taskforce is working independently and will present its report to the National Executive Committee (NEC). “Once the reforms report us tabled and adopted, we will look for all the people who defected and woo them back to the party,’’ Mbadi said The party’s 2017 nominations were marred with chaos and outright rigging, leaving some candidates dejected. Most of the aggrieved defected to fringe parties. ODM has a 76 elected and nominated MPs and 20 Senators. Director of Political Affairs Opiyo Wandayi claimed that the party was out to “organically’’ improve on its national outlook and fortify its strength. ALSO READ:

IEBC warns of political violence as Migori senate campaigns starts “We expect that individual party officials will perform different kinds of labour that will make us collectively, succeed,’’ he said. kotieno@standardmedia.co.ke