A private developer has defied Government directive erecting a structure at a plot within the approach funnel to the runway of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA). Manchester Outfitters, a garment manufacturer, is alleged to have moved on with the construction of Manchester Knits factory, on plot LR.NO.24092 even after Kenya Airport Authority (KAA) opposed the move. ALSO READ:

Murage back as Kibaki makes office changes The building is still unoccupied putting safety of passengers landing at the airport at risk. In a letter seen by Standard, dated April 11, 2002, KAA asks the Manchester Outfitters to stop the construction building for the safety of aircraft. "The above plot lays within the approach funnel to the runway … an area which should be free from obstacles, for the safety of aircraft on approach," reads the letter signed by the then KAA Managing Director M.S Muriithi, copied to Manchester Outfitters and Commissioner of Lands. "The plot is shown edged in red on the attached plan of the area and in fact, we have already written to the Commissioner of Lands requesting him to revoke any allocation made in this area." Aviation experts have warned buildings erected around the Airport could be dangerous for the planes and passengers landing. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “Although the International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO) and US authorities had given JKIA a clean bill of health on international aviation flight standards, they might rethink their position and revoke the permission, owing to poor security standards on our Airport,” the expert noted on conditions of anonymity. He warned that the blatant violation of laws might jeopardise the eagerly awaited maiden flight to New York, US. Kenya Airways is scheduled to begin non-stop flights from Nairobi to New York on October 28th this year. ALSO READ:

New rules set for alcohol trade He called on Government to demolish all buildings that have been illegally erected in and around JKIA. Efforts to reach out to Manchester Outfitters management for a comment were futile. He called on Government to demolish all buildings that have been illegally erected in and around JKIA. Efforts to reach out to Manchester Outfitters management for a comment were not successful.   ALSO READ:

Why value addition is critical to an economy