Two people being held in connection with the death of a Meru magistrate's daughter are expected to appear in court today. Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) in Meru and Nairobi who have been following the case have until today to either charge the two, release them or request for more time to conclude their investigations. ALSO READ:

Mystery of magistrate’s murdered daughter Reports indicate that the two might have been longer in police custody than initially thought. One of them is said to have been arrested before the body of Maribel Kapolon was found by a herder at the Gitoro section of Upper Imenti Forest on Sunday evening. The team probing the killing of the nine-year-old daughter of Caroline Kemei, a senior resident magistrate at the Githongo law courts, first requested Meru Chief Magistrate Hannah Ndung’u to let them hold one suspect on September 10 under a miscellaneous application. Missing link The court granted them 10 days that expire today. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Detectives are still trying to find the link between the suspect arrested in Kayole estate, Nairobi, with the second suspect, identified as a former prison warder. They are investigating whether the former prison warder was the person who lured Maribel to her death after a school bus dropped her near her Milimani Estate home on September 6. Elsewhere, the Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association (KMJA) has called for more security for magistrates. ALSO READ:

Maid fails to take plea in boss' murder trial “Such cold-blooded attacks are preventable if the Government took seriously calls to provide judicial officers with sufficient security,” said KMJA Secretary General Derrick Kuto. Governor Kiraitu Murungi and his deputy, Titus Ntuchiu, condoled with the family. A postmortem will be conducted today in Meru and the burial is set for Turbo in Uasin Gishu County on Saturday.