Justice Legal Affairs and Human Right Senate Committee led by the Chairman Samson Cherargei (centre) and James Orengo enjoy launch at the Eldoret GK prison when they toured their site in Eldoret yesterday. 27.09.2018. [PHOTOS: PETER OCHIENG/STANDARD]. Senators yesterday expressed shock at the deplorable living conditions of staff and inmates at the Eldoret GK Prison. ALSO READ:

Mandago faces Senate on 2013 audit queries Members of the Committee on Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights led by Nandi Senator Kiprotich Cherargei were on a tour of the housing facilities provided for the prisons officers. They were on a fact-finding mission on welfare and human rights issues. The senators, who found that the prison staff were living in mud-and-iron sheet houses, used the visit to rally the State on the need to improve conditions in the prisons department. Next to the humble structures was a stalled modern housing project. Senator Minthika Linturi (Meru) said there was need for a fresh contract to be issued in order to finish the buildings. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Mr Cherargei questioned how the contractor was paid 95 per cent of the money for the project yet it stood incomplete. Paid promptly “We need to interrogate how they were paid so promptly yet the houses are not finished. What can they do even when they are given the amount they demand as variation?” he posed. ALSO READ:

Excitement as Senators begin sessions in Eldoret Senator Susan Kihika (Nakuru) pushed the need to build blocks of flats to accommodate more staff and their families. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) challenged the State to ensure that prisoners who completed their jail terms were integrated back into society. “The committee shall ensure that prisons are transformed while your (prisoners') rights are safeguarded,” he said. Senator Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo) said besides the housing problem, prisoners still faced many challenges during the hearing and dispensation of their cases. According to the memorandum presented to the team by Officer in Charge Alfred Musila, a proposed staff housing project that started in 2006 had stalled.  ALSO READ:

Boost mobile network to curb bandit attacks, senators urge