 The government is planning to take vulnerable witnesses outside the country to protect them. This will see witnesses in high-profile cases, whose lives could be in danger, flown to countries with similar laws as Kenya’s on a reciprocal basis. A number of people who are crucial state witnesses in corruption cases such as the National Youth Service scandal, terrorism, sexual offences and land matters have applied to the Witness Protection Agency (WPA) to guard them against threats or risks existing on account of their role in the matters. The WPA and other government agencies are currently in the process of drafting bilateral agreements that will see foreign countries offer the services on reciprocal basis. “We do not have any witness protected outside the country but are working on bilateral agreements based on the amendments that were made on the Witness Protection Act,” says agency’s Principal Public Relations Officer Calvine Oredi. Section 29A(1) of the Act amended in 2016 provides that the agency’s director, in consultation with the Attorney General, may on the basis of any treaty or convention ratified by Kenya enter into a written agreement with competent authority from a foreign country. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. The agreement is to admit qualifying witnesses from that country in the witness protection programme under the Kenyan law or have a local witness protected under the witness protection regime of that foreign country. The period of protection, source of funding, reasons for protecting the person and the nature of risk, particulars of the witness and other relevant details must be included in the document. Oredi says WPA has received 1,123 applications since it started its operations in September 2008, out of which 487 applicants were admitted to the local programme along with 1,373 defendants. The WPA relocated some of those in the programme from one part of the country to another and even changed some of their identities in the court cases. Out of the 487 witnesses, 309 have since testified in courts successfully while some are already out of the programme after their risk factors were assessed.