There is urgent need to discuss and understand the dangers of ex parte proceedings because of the inferior informational base it provides for judicial decision-making and the clear risk it poses to the rule of law. This is one reason why the right to a fair hearing is important, because the court benefits from information according to each side of a controversy. Ex parte proceedings explicitly qualify the right to be heard to the extent that decisions are taken based on the claims of one party but enforceable against absent or unheard parties. This prejudicial state of affairs is antithetical to the very idea of justice. ALSO READ:

Maraga defends judges The clamour instigated by the wayward prosecution of Miguna Miguna before various courts also indicated a perverse convergence of interests by the NRM legal cadres and elements of the Judiciary. This convergence motivated the staging of what was intended to be an epic showdown with the Executive. The convergence explains the hell-for-leather rush to produce one order after another in such bewildering succession, and the procedural and legal shortcuts this rush entailed. Proceedings against the government cannot and should not be initiated and concluded in 2 quick ex parte hearings. Government’s accountability radiates beyond a single incident and encounter, and at any given time, involves myriad officers located in diverse and far-flung parts of its system.  Contempt proceedings similarly cannot be prosecuted in the deplorably summary fashion Kenya witnessed on live television. Indeed, the definition of contempt is fairly problematic when applied to Mr Miguna. Finally, the idea of justice- both procedural and substantive –to be expected from judicial institutions was severely undermined in the proceedings. The legal framework governing contempt of court must be seen in the larger context of the essence of judicial authority, which is the administration of justice and the rule of law. The right to fair hearing is part of the fundamental rights that our constitution ring-fences from qualification, reduction, alteration or derogation under Article 25(c). Therefore, no statute, precedent, contingency or perceived imperative may be invoked to restrict or deny a party’s right to be heard before a court of law. Indeed, the authority of the courts and the rule of law depend very much on the Judiciary’s scrupulous adherence to our constitutional dispensation. Article 50 (1) makes fair public hearing mandatory. The lazy mind may pay short shrift to the brief statement, but the demands of fairness are quite onerous, and rely on a standard that cannot be achieved ex parte. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 This is the overarching understanding that must inform any contestation about the implications and applications of the contempt of court, Government Proceedings, Civil Procedure and other frameworks: the right to a hearing cannot be qualified under any circumstances. Now, ex parte court proceedings that profile the prejudiced parties as lords of impunity brazenly depart the canonical as well as intuitive parameters of fairness. They also introduce the depraved thesis that the end justifies the means: since Internal Security CS Fred Matiang’i, or PS Gordon Kihalangwa, or IG Joseph Boinnet, is alleged to be in contempt, their right to be heard may be arbitrarily extinguished. When the constitutional and legal principles that underpin our justice system are discarded in favour of two-wrongs-make-right, the rule of law suffers under the hand of a judge, at the instance of learned advocates, before a disbelieving nation. When court orders are given arbitrarily, justice stops being a public good and becomes a private rent. In this state, the Judiciary can no longer claim to serve the public interest, nor pretend to be the custodian of the rule of law. It becomes the property of corrupt cartels, captive to vested interests and liable to inflict devastating damage to its own credibility, citizen’s rights, good governance and the rule of law. Thus, depending on which rentier is calling the shots, the courts in turn become NRM Tribunals, Omtatah Chambers or Amalgamated Cartels Exchange. ALSO READ:

Matiang’i jeopardising my pact with Uhuru, says Raila In the public interest, our media must not be hasty in retiring Mr Miguna. It must begin to cover the various disturbing aspects of malpractice, misconduct, undue influence and outright capture exhibited in this series of forensic ambushes. The public deserves to see all sides to the story. So far, media coverage has carefully curated conflictual, dramatic and suspenseful fare which perfectly served the interests of the NRM Tribunal. There is compelling reason to scratch beneath the surface histrionics and reveal the unhealthy dynamics buffeting the ship of our Judiciary. The biggest threat to the rule of law and judicial independence is internal; kikulacho ki nguoni mwako. Mr Ng’eno is an advocate.