Officials of the National Super Alliance in the United Kingdom have denounced that they were behind the news appearing in a section of the Kenyan media that UK NASA supporters have resolved to support Uhuru Kenyatta government. Led by its Chairman Kivindyo Ndivo the group called it ‘reckless and self-seeking’ for anyone to issue a statement on behalf of the group without following the right channels and vowed to take action to rogue members who act outside the organisational guidelines. ALSO READ:

NASA supporters in UK to now support Government “In any organisation there are people who will try to rock the boat for whatever reason.  I am consulting with the rest of my committee members on what action to take against the member.” Mr Ndivo said. The article appearing on yesterday’s Standard online edition quoted the NASA-UK General Secretary Ali Abdi saying the group now supports Uhuru government despite the delay in making any details public what the agreement entails. Soon after Raila –Uhuru handshake, NASA-UK issued a statement in the Standard welcoming the move terming it as an act of statesmanship for the two leaders. At the same the group warned the NASA Chief against entering into any agreement that will jeopardise the electoral reform agenda, respect for law and justice for the families of those killed or injured through state sponsored police brutality during the last general elections which left over 400 people dead. Group Vice Chairman George Osore said so far there is nothing to write home about on the handshake deal and for anyone to say that we support Uhuru government at this stage was completely out of order. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Mr Osore said the continued disregard of court orders by state organs and the inhuman treatment of Miguna Miguna by the Kenyan security forces during his attempted return to Kenya even after the handshake deal is a great cause of concern for members. This he said formed the basis for a wait and see attitude by the group. “Our position is we wait and see if the handshake will address the issues that Kenyans hold dear and if not we will not hesitate to call upon our members to stand up against impunity, corruption and injustice.” Said Mr Osore ALSO READ:

Musalia: Uhuru-Raila handshake rattled NASA (video)