Angry residents torched three houses and a resort under construction to protest rising insecurity in Bokeire, Bonchari, Kisii County. The residents were avenging the recent abduction of a pastor -Esther Bochaberi Oyugi, 60, who has not been found days after her disappearance. ALSO READ:

Re-emergence of criminal gang killing in cold blood The houses are said to be owned by people suspected to be behind the abduction. One of the houses torched is a recently built maisonette and an unfinished resort. On Friday, the residents armed with crude weapons took the law into their hands and raided the village destroying property owned by the alleged suspects as police kept at bay. Meanwhile for the second day on Saturday police were busy excavating the site where the body of a woman was allegedly buried. The abduction of the elderly woman and her possible murder brings to the fore the continuing cases of insecurity in the area. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The pastor was abducted on the night of March 11, 2018 from her house at Bokeire sub location in Bonchari Kisii South. A church minister in one of the protestor's churches, claimed Bochaberi is said to have refused advances of a wealthy man from the area to sell him land. Five people, among them an assistant chief, were arrested and charged in court for abduction of the elderly woman. The five; Fredrick Nyambati, Benson Machuka, Joseph Onduko, Reuben Onduso, Christopher Omwega appeared before Chief Magistrate Stephen Onjoro two weeks ago pleaded not guilty before being released on a bond of Sh200,000 and a surety of similar amount. ALSO READ:

Residents petition Matiang'i as organised crime resurges in Kisumu Residents accuse some police offices of aiding some perpetrators as in the case of Bochaberi who had on several occasions reported to Gesonso police station over numerous threats to her life yet no action was taken. “Some officers at the station think they are untouchable. The government must crack the whip otherwise we are going to lose more lives and property,” said Samuel Ondimu, a resident. Less than a month ago, three watchmen guarding two lorries and  two school buses were murdered in cold blood. No suspect has been arrested. Division among the sub county security committee has also been blamed for the rising insecurity. The cracks were evident on Friday during the torching of the houses where police officers including the Quick Response Team (QRT) who had been called in to quell the tension were kept waiting for more than one hour at Kisii South Headquarters without any command from their seniors. All this time, residents had a field day moving from one home to the other burning down houses, with the media not allowed to cover the unfolding of the events. Area MP John Oyioko, County Commissioner Godfrey Kigochi and Police County Cordinator Hasan Abdi held a security meeting in the area and condemned the killings and the torching of the houses. ALSO READ:

Gangsters and police in coastal killing spree “We are equal to the task and let nobody think or imagine that the law will be applied sparingly. Land is an emotive issue in this region and we must all strive to operate within the tenets of the law when transacting such business,” said Abdi. He said they are following possible leads to arrest more suspects in the abduction cases. “Both police and residents should take up the responsibility to ensure that we all remain calm. Everybody will carry his own cross once the law takes its course.”