Dame Daphne Sheldrick, a well-known Kenyan conservationist who helped protect the East African country’s wildlife for 60 years, has died, her organization announced on Friday, describing her as a friend of elephants who “learned to read their hearts.” Born in 1934 in Kenya, Sheldrick died Thursday evening “after a long battle with breast cancer,” according to her organization the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust (DSWT) which she helped found in 1977 after the death of her husband. ALSO READ:

Yes, I miss him terribly, warder says of Sudan The statement praised her for helping deepen the world’s understanding of elephants and rhinos. She pioneered raising orphaned infant elephants and rhinos on milk, the statement said, and that the knowledge has since saved 230 elephants in Kenya. “Daphne lived alongside elephants and learned to read their hearts...she understood their fragility, their intelligence, their capacity to love,” the statement said. protect  Kenyan  wildlife for 60 years dies aged 83 after battle with breast cancer. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Leading Kenyan conservationist Daphne Sheldrick dies of cancer  Dame Daphne Sheldrick, a well-known Kenyan conservationist who helped protect the East African country’s wildlife for 60 years, has died, her organization announced on Friday, describing her as a friend of elephants who “learned to read their hearts.” Born in 1934 in Kenya, Sheldrick died Thursday evening “after a long battle with breast cancer,” according to her organization the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust (DSWT) which she helped found in 1977 after the death of her husband. ALSO READ:

Scientists plan to save northern white rhinos The statement praised her for helping deepen the world’s understanding of elephants and rhinos. She pioneered raising orphaned infant elephants and rhinos on milk, the statement said, and that the knowledge has since saved 230 elephants in Kenya. “Daphne lived alongside elephants and learned to read their hearts...she understood their fragility, their intelligence, their capacity to love,” the statement said.