An elderly man and a woman escaped death yesterday after they were attacked by family members who accused them of witchcraft. The two were accused of casting a spell on a girl who reportedly went insane in Soyosoyo village in Ngerenya, Kilifi North constituency. ALSO READ:

Sh500m facility to ensure timely diagnosis of cancer They were saved from lynching by police officers on patrol. The girl the two are accused of casting a spell on, is said to be the daughter of the man's brother. She reportedly went wild after the alleged spell was cast. Speaking to The Standard, 66-year-old Kalume Karisa said the girl's family went to a witch doctor to find out what her problem was. "When they came from the witch doctor, the girl started shouting that she was dying because of me. She said I was behind her sickness. I am innocent. I did not do anything to her. I am a Christian and I don't engage in any evil activities. My brother Kazungu Charo is accusing me for nothing,” said Mr Karisa. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He said his brother had asked him to accompany him to a church in Malindi town so they could pray for his sick daughter. "We went together to the church and the pastor prayed for the girl. But my brother demanded that the pastor should take me through prayers as well so I could confess my sins. I was not aware that my brother’s daughter was sick until last week." Yesterday, before the attack, the girl's family had demanded that Karisa should heal her. "I was surprised when my brother demanded that I do everything to heal his daughter." ALSO READ:

Two more counties ban charcoal business Margret Kahaso said she was attacked after her morning prayers. "I was saved by my son and the police. I could not run because of my age," she said. "They were waiting for me while I prayed in church. When I went outside, they landed on me with clubs. They said I did not deserve to live." Zowerani Assistant Chief Tecla Atitwa said police were investigating the matter.