The accuracy with which the meteorological department has been able to predict the weather patterns has been impressive. This is unlike in the last couple of years when it was more of a hit or miss affair. After lessening of the heavy rains witnessed in early March over the past week as predicted, the meteorological department again warns that in April, the rains will be particularly heavy, and has urged caution. As much as we desire the rains after a particularly long dry spell, there are downsides that come with rains. These include lightning and landslides that are likely to be precipitated by heavy rains in areas that are more prone to landslides. ALSO READ:

Watch out for floods as long rains hit peak - weather experts Some of these areas include those around the Elgeyo Escarpment and in Murang’a County and parts of Central highlands. Sadly, previous warnings to people in the landslide prone areas to move to safer ground were at times ignored at great cost to life Heavy flooding after rains has repeatedly wreaked havoc across the country, yet such, particularly in urban areas like Nairobi, can be avoided by the prudent planning and management of the city. In Nairobi, for instance, flooding is a perennial menace not just because of a clogged drainage system, but also because of the haphazard erection of commercial and residential buildings on natural waterways and on riparian land. Flooding does not only lead to destruction, with it come waterborne diseases. In the recent past, we have witnessed cases of cholera infections across the country, but Nairobi seemed to bear the brunt of it. Tougher action is needed on those who deliberately constrict waterways. City planners and County governments need to take the initiative in ensuring all that needs to be done to make the environment safe is done. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The Isiolo County Government has ordered owners of buildings erected on natural waterways to bring them down to allow the water to flow freely as it seeks to find its level. Emulating the same and enforcing it will address the flood problem especially in Nairobi and other towns like Mombasa where rains always is never a blessing but a season curse to residents. If it is not drowning, it is unapproved, poorly constructed buildings getting soaked and tumbling down with fatalities. ALSO READ:

Chopper carrying Lugari MP makes emergency landing following bad weather