Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) have passed a motion seeking to compel the Executive to formulate a policy guide on taxi operators. Among the guidelines proposed by Cheptiret-Kipchamo MCA Gilbert Tenai, include the use of identical colours for all taxis and establishment of a well-marked designated stand. ALSO READ:

Con woman targeting MCAs Tabling the motion, Mr Tenai raised concerns that although the sector provides employment to many people, it has been afflicted by cases of insecurity, including hijackings. “The motion is meant to introduce safety to passengers and guarantee taxi operators smooth operations by introducing identical colours. A taxi driver from my ward was recently murdered by unknown people. We are also concerned of their working area,” he said. To introduce order in the business, Tenai said all taxis operating in Eldoret town and its environs should have a distinctive colour. “As we look forward to enjoying the city status, it is prudent to organise the sector as we come up with plans to set up CCTVs to boost security. At the moment, anyone can park their car and pretend to be in the taxi business, making it dangerous for passengers,” he added. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 MCA Sarah Malel said Eldoret’s taxis should have a unique colour like those operating between the town centre and Eldoret International Airport (EIA). “Our region is expanding and we will soon be receiving many investors who would want to make use of our taxis. We want to assure them of their safety,” she said. But a section of MCAs challenged the motion, saying the document should be reverted to the committee on transport. Kiplombe Ward Representative Ramadhan Ali asked that the document be aligned with a motion from the previous assembly. “It may haunt the house if citizens blaming us for passing laws that will affect them later,” he said.  ALSO READ:

MCAs seek to impeach deputy speaker