The weatherman has warned of increased rainfall across the country, even as floods claimed five more lives in Isiolo County. The Kenya Meteorological Department (KMD) said heavy rains and thunderstorms were expected in the lake region and the highlands around the Rift Valley. ALSO READ:

Police boss Charles Mwau buried KMD Director Peter Ambenje yesterday urged Kenyans to prepare for the rains. “Most parts of the country will continue receiving rainfall and areas such as the lake region, around Rift Valley highlands will experience intense showers and thunderstorms,” he stated. The announcement came a day after two children who were herding goats were swept away by flood waters in Oldonyiro division in Isiolo. The County National Drought Management Authority coordinator, Lordman Lekalkuli, confirmed the incident. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 There were reports that three others drowned in Isiolo Central, Merti, and Garba Tula regions. There was no immediate confirmation of these incidents from the authorities and The Standard could not immediately verify the reports. The weatherman, in his latest forecast, also indicatesd that Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Siaya, Kisumu, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, and Uasin Gishu counties will experience rain in a few places in the morning and this is expected to last for three days. The forecast for the days between April 21 and 25 shows that the morning rains will give way to showers and thunderstorms over several places in the afternoon. Temperatures are also expected to fall to lows of 10 degrees Celsius. Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma, and Busia counties are also expected to experience the same conditions. ALSO READ:

Two children missing in Mandera as floods rage Afternoon showers Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi will not be spared either. Temperatures will be between 10 and 25 degrees Celsius. The northeastern counties of Marsabit, Isiolo, Mandera, Wajir, and Garissa will also receive rainfall characterised by morning rains and afternoon showers for the next three days.