Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru who was co-chair of the 5th annual devolution conference left delegates in stitches several times during the 3-day conference in Kakamega. The governor who is known for tough stances and no-nonsense attitude shifted gears to reveal a humorous side by sending delegates into fits of laughter in every speech she made. ALSO READ:

Ruto fires back at Raila over regional blocs At the beginning of the conference Waiguru remarked about the opening match between senators and governors saying it revealed a lot of things which suits and ties hide, much to the roaring laughter of the delegates. She urged her fellow governors to pull up their socks lest they are beaten by senators in the field and in the boardrooms. This was after the senators beat the governors 5-0 at the opening match of the conference. In her closing remarks she noted Kakamega high school’s motto “if you are lazy find another school” where the conference was hosted and connoted that to be the same spirit of devolution. The governor giving the closing remarks thanked the national government, development partners and the people of Kakamega for their hospitality. She further reiterated the need to work together with leaders from the political divide alluding to the Bukusu shoulder dance and the Maragoli shoulder dance that her Kakamega counterpart and host of the conference Hon. Wycliff Oparanya had taught her to differentiate. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The governor also welcomed and shook hands with Hon Raila Odinga for the first time in public since 2015. She lauded the initial handshake between President Uhuru and Retired Prime minister Raila Odinga for causing a seismic shift in the political arena in the country and forging unity over political divisions. As one of only 3 women governors, Waiguru is considered a top contender for the running mate position in 2022. ALSO READ:

Joho calls for stronger ODM