It is 10am, on a cloudy Thursday, and Elvis Omondi, 13, walks into the theatre at Masogo Health Centre. He has come for the cut, but from the look on his face- a mixture of anxiety and teenage bravado- it is clear that he does not know what to expect. On the surgical couch, the anxiety and bravado soon disappear and are replaced with a grimace. Fifteen minutes later, it is over, and Omondi breathes a sigh of relief. It was not as bad as he had imagined. Before making the trip to the health centre, the Standard Eight pupil had listened keenly as Family Aids Care and Education Services (FACES) explained the process and benefits of Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision (VMMC). Days later, Omondi was among youths who flocked to the VMMC centre at Masogo Health Centre for the cut. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He shyly but firmly answers all the questions about the advantages of the cut, and why he made the choice. HIV risk The cut reduces the risk of contracting HIV, he says, but for him, it was not about that, it is about sexual hygiene. “I do not want any infections caused by accumulation of germs,” he says. For decades, his community did not practice male circumcision which they regarded as a foreign culture. But this is slowly changing, thanks to relentless campaigns by organisations such as FACES, and its newfound ambassador, Omondi. “As an official of the debating club in my school (Sanda Primary in Kabar, Muhoroni) I now have the experience and will convince more of my friends to do it,” he said. Allan Muga, FACES project mobiliser at Masogo says the uptake of the service has increased among the youth. According to Mr Muga, they perform between 15 and 20 cuts every day. A team of two surgeons, a hygiene officer, a counsellor and a mobiliser has been visiting learning institutions to speak to the youth about the benefits of VMMC. It was during one of their sessions that the team met Omondi and his peers who expressed interest. “Young people seem more ready for it, we have had many of the adults book appointments but later disappear,” said Muga. Out of 2,640 males who underwent VMMC between September 2016 and October 2017, only 234 were aged above 25. But before the youngsters are put under the knife, their parents must give consent in writing. “We give them consent forms to take to their parents to approve before they come for the cut,” says Muga. “Such is the eagerness among the youngsters to undergo the cut, but FACES only proceeds once they get approval from the parents. “We have seen many pupils who are ready for it, but we counsel them on why we need to involve their parents,” says Muga.