At first glance, the sprawling 300 acres of the tea plantation at Kabianga Tea Farm owned by Governor Paul Chepkwony administration gives a false impression that everything is fine. However, a quick glance at the tea plucker’s torn aprons and patched up tea leaf baskets reveals the first list in the sad tale of the at least 300 workers. ALSO READ:

Huge wage bills, legal hurdles weigh down new governors Alfred Bett who had literally broken his back at the farm since 2008 expressed dissatisfaction with the Sh9 they earn per kilogram of tea leaves plucked. The amount is Sh6 less compared to what multinational tea companies pay their workers. The amount the Kabianga Tea Farm workers earn is also Sh2 less compared to the amount local villagers with tea plantations pay their farms hands. “For a long time, the management of Kabianga Tea Farm and Governor Paul Chepkwony himself promised us a pay hike but in vain,” said Bett. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The sadden tea plucker also said they had requested for protective aprons, gumboots and other items but the management had ignored the requests. “Some of us have been forced to spend our own little money to buy protective aprons and other gears for use while plucking tea for the county government. We are an oppressed workers,” said Bett. Lydia Kerubo, lamented that whenever they fall sick, the management is never concerned. “One cannot be granted even a day off to seek proper medication. The best we can get is pain killers from the local dispensary before being forced to return to pluck tea,” she said. Angeline Korir, said despite working at the farm for ten years, she was yet to receive a confirmation letter. “Even the few of us who have the letters are not enjoying the benefits of being a permanent employees, such as going for the annual leave with pay,” she said. The also raised concerns over the lack of adequate housing. “Two to three families are forced to stay in one house. The housing crisis has forced those who come from the nearby villagers to prefer living there,” said Bett. Dickson Sang, the Kericho Kenya Plantation and Agricultural Workers Union (KPAWU) branch Secretary said though the Kabianga Tea farm employees had expressed a desire to join the union, they had met stiff resistance. “The Kabianga Board of Management and the county government through the agriculture department had refused to cooperate,” he said. Kabianga Tea Farm manager Patrick Rono acknowledged some of issues raised but denied others. “Though we admit that that the workers are paid Sh9 it is an increment since a few years ago we use to pay at least Sh7.50. We also admit that some of the protective gear may be worn out since they were purchased a year ago but we are in the process of purchasing new ones,” he said. He nonetheless denied the allegation that the farm dispensary lacks adequate medicine and that there is no enough housing for the workers. “It is no also true that the farm management denied the workers the right to join Kenya Plantation and Agricultural Union (KPAWU). The union fees seem to have too high for them and therefore they decided to push the desire to join the union aside,” said Rono. The Kabianga Tea Farm controversy has erupted at a time when the county government announced that it intends to export the tea from the farm to Egypt. “I have established good business relationship with Egypt and soon they will be buying the tea from our Kabianga Tea farm,” said Governor Paul Chepkwony when he met Alexandria University’s Dr. Essay Elkordi and the University advisor for African Affairs Prof. Ibrahim Rehab.