Residents of Murang’a and other counties flocked the Kenneth Matiba Eye and Dental Hospital to get free treatment. Following Mr Matiba’s demise, the Murang’a County administration ordered the facility to provide free care to patients in honour of the politician who hailed from the county. The free treatment that started yesterday will end after his send-off. ALSO READ:

Family, friends bid Matiba goodbye The hospital, located at Kenol along the Nyeri-Nairobi highway, was initiated by the county government two years ago to provide specialised treatment. It was named after the second liberation hero. Mary Wairimu from Ngewa village in Kiambu County has benefited from the free treatment. She turned partially blind two years ago and was required to undergo surgery, but could not for afford it. She visited the hospital when Governor Mwangi wa Iria announced the free treatment in honour of Matiba and was booked for surgery. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “I have now regained my sight. I hope the facility will continue helping poor people like me,” she said. Kelvin Mokoya from Kakamega said he was brought to the facility after he lost his sight following an accident at work. ”I hope to regain my sight after a successful surgery. I have suffered for long due to lack of money for specialised treatment,” he said. Since Matiba commissioned the hospital in May 2016, thousands of people have been treated there, with 10,000 undergoing surgery. ALSO READ:

In honour of Matiba, residents get free treatment Some 310,112 people, most of them elderly, have been given spectacles. Wa Iria said the hospital also attends to accident victims waiting to be transferred to other facilities. “Complicated dental and eye cases have always been referred to Kenyatta National Hospital and Kikuyu Eye Hospital. Now the Murang’a County government has bridged the gap with the establishment of a specialised facility,” said the governor. Elsewhere, Murang’a County assembly has proposed that Murang’a University of Technology be renamed Kenneth Matiba University of Technology. The assembly speaker Nduati Kariuki said this would be an honour as Matiba was among the founder members of the Murang’a College of Technology, which was elevated to a university.  ALSO READ:

Senator Moi visits Matiba