At least three people have died in Masingo slum after drinking contaminated water. The three are said to have been vomiting continuously and had diarrhoea before they died. County Director of Medical Services Arthur Andere said the three died while receiving treatment at Kakamega County Referral Hospital. Mr Andere said the two men and a woman were residents of Masingo slum that hosts more than 800 people. More than five others have been admitted at the hospital with similar symptoms but medical staff say they are in stable condition. Andere said he had sent a team of public health officers to the slum to investigate the possibility of a cholera outbreak. Already, the county government has distributed water treatment tablets to the slum dwellers. The tablets are meant to be dropped into 20-litre water jerricans and after about 30 minutes, the water is safe for drinking. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Contain situation Speaking on behalf of Health Executive Rachel Amunga, County Communications Director Dickson Rayori said they were working around the clock to contain the situation. Fatuma Amoto, 68, told The Standard yesterday that she was among the first people to fall sick. Ms Amoto said she drank water after dinner last Friday but after 30 minutes, she started vomiting a green substance. “My husband ran to the shop and bought me some drugs. But my condition worsened after taking them and I even passed blood-stained stool,” she said. Eric Khakabo, another resident, said they did not have clean water and depended on a small river that cuts across the slum from Kakamega town. A visit to Masingo slum by The Standard team revealed that most of the dwellers had no toilets. Human waste wrapped in nylon paper bags can be seen floating in the river. The team also met seven residents who were weak and vomiting in their houses. Neighbours claimed they did not know their relatives. According to Mr Khakabo, a blacksmith, sewage from Kakamega town flows into the river from which they draw their water.