What was once a sleepy residential neighbourhood in Nairobi's Eastland’s, has now morphed into East Africa’s commercial hub in just two decades. It is estimated that Eastleigh hosts investments worth billions of shillings and contributes at least 30 per cent of taxes collected by Nairobi County. ALSO READ:

Eastleigh to host cultural, business festival Home to over 50 malls, Eastleigh is where thousands of wholesale and retail traders sell clothing, electronics, fabric and more that make their way across East and Central Africa. The fact that it is located in a cosmopolitan area has provided Eastleigh with an ambience for the energetic yet thriving commercial hub. Small shops, great eateries and cafes, and surging population are squeezed in to a compact 2,000-acre grid yet the business seem to find a way of expanding. It is for this reason that over 500 delegates will converge for the Firi Festival where the business community will showcase Eastleigh suburb as a growing business and investment hub in the region. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The event will convene business executives, government leaders, academic scholars and many others at the Eastleigh Boys high school on Saturday to offer concrete strategies and ideas to help to prepare for the future, and scale up their efforts towards ensuring sustainability. Ahmed Mohammed, CEO of Asmali Media and organiser of the event said that they will offer a platform to discuss the current challenges and their effects on the Eastleigh businesses. “There will be high level speakers and interactive debates as well as unique networking opportunities for all key stakeholders,” he said. This years’ partnership with the Nairobi County government in Mohammed’s opinion indicates just how much impact the Easleigh business contributes to the Nairobi economy. ALSO READ:

Eastleigh plans cultural, business expo to showcase areas potential “Businesses participating in the Firi festival include Money transfer firm Dahabshiil, Safaricom, Kenya Power, Gulf African Bank, Nairobi county government among others,” he said. The event will culminate in a gala where individuals who best demonstrate their support for small business by promoting business friendly initiatives in their region will be awarded. “Small business are at the heart of every community and we will appreciate leading voices and outstanding citizens,” said Mohammed.