Poor budgetary allocation as the biggest challenge facing devolution, Cabinet Secretary for Devolution and Planning Eugene Wamalwa has said. According to Wamalwa, the poor disbursement of funds to counties by the national government and poor coordination between government institutions limits the ability of county governments to properly handle devolved functions like health. ALSO READ:

More Kenyans warm up to devolution: IPSOS Wamalwa also said counties need to improve their revenue collection methods, noting, "As a country we are moving in the right direction in creation of cities and urban areas but we need stronger taxation systems at the county levels to generate more revenue". He spoke at the regional strategic meeting of the United Cities and Local Governments of Africa (UGLCA), which was held yesterday in Nairobi. Wamalwa's sentiments were supported by the Council of Governors Chairman Josphat Nanok, who stated that counties can deliver better services to their residents if the national government funds them efficiently. The CS and Governor Nanok's remarks come in the midst of a growing financial crisis in several counties. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Due to delayed disbursement of funds by the National Treasury, many counties have been forced to delay development programs as they focus on priority areas such as paying employee salaries. In the 2017/2018 financial year, parliament approved the allocation of Shs 345 billion to county governments. However, by the end of February, the National Treasury had only allocated counties with funds for recurrent expenditure, while holding off on money meant for development. In December 2017, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the County Allocation of Revenue Bill, allowing the treasury to disburse Shs 77.4 billion of the Shs 345 billion to the counties. ALSO READ:

Odd by-laws that can land you in jail While counties like Kericho received their last allocations in January this year, some like Bungoma say they last received allocations in October 2017. As a result, counties are struggling to pay staff salaries and provide key services. However, Hussein Dado, the Chief Administrative Secretary of Devolution and former governor of Tana River County has defended the delayed budgetary allocation. "There are a lot of huge financial burdens that were not there before such as elections and drought, which caused falls in revenue and affected the flow of funds,"Dado stated. According to Dado, the delay in distribution of funds is just temporary and will be resolved now that elections are over as the national government emerges from its cash crisis. Dado further stated that the national government is keener on working with county governments to help them offer better devolved services to the people. According to Dado, many of these services are those on President Kenyatta's "Big Four Agenda", such as health and housing. ALSO READ:

After handshake, Raila is key speaker at conference Dado also pointed out that devolution has produced many benefits such as urban to rural migration, which he says is on the rise. "We are starting to experience urban to rural migration as people move back to their home counties to start businesses or find jobs in the devolved units,” he said. According to Dado, this trend is key in solving the country's urban problems such as the mushrooming of slums.