Celebrated Rumba music genius John Odhiambo Orondo popularly known as Johny Junior will stage a splendid concert dubbed Osiepe Night at Nairobi’s Meladen Lounge on Friday, April 13, evening to celebrate his fans locally and across the diaspora for his newly launched album. For Rumba music lovers the place to be on Friday April, 13 will be at the newly refurbished Meladen Lounge situated at Nairobi community area in Upper Hill. Here, renowned rumba star, Johny Junior, regarded as one of the most successful singer, and bandleader in the local current generation will lead his Bana BV band in thrilling revelers with some of his best and latest songs all night long. Dubbed Osiepe Night – the much anticipated event courtesy of Melamoney Promotions (known to have hosted internationally renowned musicians among them Ferre Gola, Fally Ipupa and Mbilia Bel), is aimed at celebrating Johny Junior fans across the globe. Going by his fame the event is expected to attract revelers from all walks of lives who will have the chance to watch arguably one of the best and consistent rumba singer among local musicians, and most sought-after vocalists on the rumba music scene. Curtain raiser will be celebrated Kisumu based Ohangla singer and bandleader Freddy Jakadongo who will use the opportunity to showcase his unique skills. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 So what should Kenyan fans expect during his much anticipated concert? Credited for his strong vocals, sweet voice and scintillating beats Johny Junior says he will use the opportunity to explore Rumba at its best. "Our fans should expect nothing short of our internationally acclaimed evergreen hit songs among them Nyoremo, Herana, Sweet Love and Bana BV that will take them down memory lane," says Johny Junior. “I want my fans to know that I am ready to give them the best - something that will enable them sick back, relax as they get to enjoy the best and latest of my tunes and latest dance styles I have lined for them.” He reveals that fans present will be among the first to be treated to his new album which is set for launch on Saturday April 7. He expects the fans to ‘eat’ his music, which he believes is unique and different from what other local rumba musicians have delivered before. “Unlike my counterparts I have mastered the art of good music having been in the industry long enough.” A scion of Limpopo International initiated by the late Musa Juma, Johny Junior has assured fans that Friday April 13, will be an explosive evening, adding his fans will be treated to scintillating music and sensational dance style he has lined for them. With gate charges pegged at Sh300, the event is expected to attract revelers from all walks of lives who will have an opportunity to sample the best of music which boast of unique fusion and a more contemporary feel of scintillating local rumba. Johnny Junior is very grateful to his fans for their unwavering support. No wonder in one of his albums Nyoremo he dedicated a track –“Mashabiki” (Appreciation) to his fans across the globe. “They are our employers, they have made us what we are and I thought it was time to show my appreciation by dedicating to them a song,” says Johnny. He is happy that he has managed to win many fans within a short time. Johnny recalls performing to empty seats a few years ago because he was unknown. That is now a thing of the past. His shows attract a multigenerational audience from different backgrounds.  According to recent reports enthusiastic Rumba fans locally and abroad have been sampling his latest LP which has continually dominated the airwaves in Kenya. “I have brought my fans very close to me; they are part of the band and are our employers. I appreciate them and strive to give them what they want, they are our backbone,” Johnny says. Johnny is determined to work hard so that within the next five years, BV Band can become one of the best Rumba music bands in East and Central Africa if not Africa as a whole. He’d also like his band to create opportunities for young musicians to emerge.  Johnny doesn’t want to be successful alone. “I want someone I have trained to be better than me,” he says. Johnny and his BV Band have staged several shows abroad. Career well spelt: Born John Odhiambo Orondo, Johny Junior started performing in 2004. He first performed with Hit Sound International Band headed by Otieno Jagwasi before joining Musa Juma’s Limpopo International Band for four years as a vocalist. He released his debut LP in 2005 while still with Hit Sound International Band. In 2009 he decided to launch his solo career and formed B-V Band. Johnny Junior is now one of the best vocalists in Kenya. During his first years in music, he was mainly playing drum sets and drums. With time, he kept on developing the desire of singing. Since trying and liking what he heard, Johnny Junior has fully concentrated on improving his singing skills. Johnny Junior’s favourite foreign musicians are the Zimbabwean Oliver Mtukudzi and the Congolese Ferre Gola. He, however, draws his musical inspiration from the late Kenyan Rumba musician Ochieng’ Kabaselleh – Ogolla. “Not only does Kabaselleh inspire me, I love his music,” he says. He is convinced he has a role of educating the public through his music. This is in fact quite evident in his lyrics. For instance in the track “Kalisto Baba”, he praises a friend who is a reliable, honest, trustworthy and generous person. Johnny Junior holds that lack of unity amongst Kenyan musicians is contributing to their countless problems. “We don’t know what is called togetherness,” he says, adding that with unity “we can go far.” Most Kenyan musicians are full of envy, he says. Johnny Junior has so far produced three LPs: “Jacky”, “Sweet Love” and “Kalisto Baba”. He is working on a new LP to be released next year. Johnny Junior says he is determined to succeed in his career as a musician. “I have big plans, but my top priority is to work hard so that I can continue producing good music that people will love. With that I’m sure all my dreams will come true.” Based in Nairobi Johnny Junior would love to see Kenyan musicians united and working together to support each other. “Let’s come together, let’s unite, it will take us far, let’s love each other, tuwache chuki – (stop envy),” he says.