Western Kenya is preparing to host President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto and Opposition leader Raila Odinga at a meeting of governors in Kakamega town. The three politicians are scheduled to address the Fifth Annual Devolution Conference to begin on April 23 and could land in Kisumu County before travelling by road to the conference venue. ALSO READ:

After handshake, Raila is key speaker at conference Their visit comes at a time when the country is still absorbing the political heat generated by Uhuru’s unexpected handshake with Raila, and the fallout it caused between the Opposition chief and his National Super Alliance (NASA) colleagues - Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula. The visit also comes at a time when both Mr Mudavadi and Senator Wetang’ula are mobilising the Luhya community to form a new political party to rival Raila’s Orange Democratic Movement ahead of the 2022 General Election. The two leaders have dismissed the newfound Uhuru-Raila friendship after they were left out of the deal. Three leaders Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Yesterday, Council of Governors Chief Executive Officer Jacqueline Mogeni and conference host Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the three leaders had confirmed their attendance. They said the leaders would address the conference on different days. The conference is scheduled to run from April 23-27. About 6,000 delegates are expected at the event that is being hosted in Kakamega for the first time. ALSO READ:

Devolution forum to focus on Uhuru's Big Four agenda Senators, governors, MPs and Members of the the County Assembly are some of the main figures expected at the conference. Yesterday, Mr Oparanya said the President would preside over the opening while Raila would give a keynote address on the second day of the event. Mr Ruto will preside over the closing ceremony. House in order “As a county, we are putting our house in order to take advantage of the development opportunities coming with the event. Several development partners have confirmed attendance,” said Oparanya. While releasing the programme of events in Kisumu, the governor said politics would not be the focus of the conference, but the Jubilee government’s ‘Big Four’ development agenda would take centre stage. The meeting also comes at a time when the debate on Luyha unity is sweeping across the region, with Ford-Kenya and Amani National Congress parties vowing to galvanise their people ahead of the 2022 elections.