The family of a man who was allegedly shot by police in Igembe has asked the Director of Public Prosecutions to intervene. According to the family, Leonard Muthee, 28, was shot in a confrontation between residents, an auctioneer, and police on March 17. ALSO READ:

Man’s body found dumped on Mombasa Road It is trying to raise Sh1.2 million to pay a hospital bill so that his body is released. The father of two was rushed to Maua Methodist Hospital and later transferred to Outspan Hospital in Nyeri after his condition deteriorated. He stayed in the hospital's intensive care unit for seven days before he died. His body is being detained at the hospital as the family has been unable to raise the money. The family's spokesman, Johanna Ntarangwi, said: “Officials from IPOA have visited and we have recorded statements with them. Now we are waiting for the DPP to chip in and help us as we seek justice for our kin,” Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Muthee was allegedly shot at Nkandone village when residents frustrated a bid by an auctioneer to attach a businesswoman's property. Police opened fire The villagers claimed police opened fire after they were pelted with stones during the confrontation. “We were with Muthee on a motorbike riding towards Mutuati market to get money to pay miraa farmers when we encountered the commotion. A police officer shot at Muthee and we all fell down. He was bleeding profusely and we rushed him to hospital,” said Fredrick Njiru, Muthee's business partner. ALSO READ:

What we must do to tackle systemic failure at the IEBC Njiru said Muthee and he were not part of the group that was engaging the police. The officer who shot Muthee, he added, is attached to Kamweline police station. But police have denied the claims. A policeman who requested anonymity said officers were the first to report the incident at Laare Police Station. “The relatives reported the matter five days later. The officers who were attacked by the residents had already booked the report. Now we have two OBs. We cannot say the man was hit by a bullet from police officers. We have asked the relatives to present us with a doctor’s report,” said a senior police officer at Kabache Police Post.