Turkana Tourism and Cultural Festival entered its second day on Friday with Deputy President (DP) William Ruto coming face-to-face with issues on oil, whose discovery in the region has caused a lot of excitement. Local and other leaders at the event asked the DP to ensure the county government gets 20 per cent while the community gets 10 per cent from the proceeds of the oil. ALSO READ:

Stop overreliance on public firms for listings, NSE told They also urged Ruto to assure them that capping on the oil revenue would be removed. The DP promised to ensure residents get what they are asking for, but warned them that he was not a member of the National Assembly which makes laws on revenue-sharing. Clad in traditional attire after being installed as an elder, Ruto said he would do his best to ensure that capping on oil revenue is removed. “There is a good sign. When we were voted in, we decided that former Senator John Munyes would handle the petroleum docket because he is a local and understands the plight of the residents. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “Currently in Parliament, the percentages have gone back to 20 per cent to the county and 10 per cent to the people. The only thing remaining is capping. It is Parliament that will decide, but I will do my best,” Ruto said. Bad politics The DP asked for unity between the county and national Government. “There is no need of bad politics. We need to unite to eradicate poverty. We should ensure that all people get the development they deserve,” Ruto said. Last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta refused to sign the Petroleum (Exploration, Development and Production) Bill, a law Loima MP Jeremiah Lomurkai said the residents of Turkana had pegged their hopes on. ALSO READ:

Uhuru's big four agenda gets boost from Arab bank “Our people have so much hope in the revenue and having enough to cater for development will help the region progress,” Lomurkai said. Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku said natural resources will help marginalised pastoralist counties catch up with the rest of the country. “Capping revenues due to the counties will reduce the funds and will lead to continued underdevelopment,” the governor said. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok said the county assembly is formulating laws to ensure proper use of oil resources. “We have the capacity to use the resources. We are working on regulations to ensure that the funds will be used in the best way possible to bring development to the people,” Nanok said. The community and its leaders want the community’s share at 10 per cent of total revenue, not the five per cent recommended by the President. ALSO READ:

Ruto lures Sudanese investors during talks with President Bashir