Two factions of the Luo Council of Elders are divided on whether NASA leader Raila Odinga should be the council's patron. One faction, led by Chairman Opiyo Otondi, met Raila at his Opoda home in Bondo on Monday and elected him the council's patron. ALSO READ:

The day Mandela failed to secure Matiba’s release However, the rival group under the leadership of Nyandiko Ongadi says the council's constitution does not provide for the position of patron. During the meeting with Raila, the elders also created a new position of executive director, which is now the highest post. Council Secretary General Owino Nyadhi was elected to the seat. Elder Adera Osawa was then elected to replace Nyadhi as the Secretary General. Osawa was the co-ordinator in Ongadi's faction but he decamped ahead of the Raila meeting where Otondi was also confirmed as the council chairman. Raila urged the elders to unite and work together under Otondi's leadership. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 But Ongadi and his group are now questioning the interest the Opposition chief has in the council, saying he is dividing the elders further. “Raila is not a member of the Luo Council of Elders but it seems he has an interest which we don’t know. His interference by siding with Otondi’s faction is aggravating division in the council,” Ongadi said. He asked the Opposition leader to quit politics and join the council so that he takes a new role. “We respect him as our political leader but let him quit politics and join elders if he is interested in the council's affairs,” he said at a press conference at his home in Homa Bay County. ALSO READ:

Uhuru and Raila handshake a superficial act Ongadi showed journalists a certificate that he says authorises him to serve as the Council chairman. The senior citizen who was accompanied by elders allied to his faction. He said all elders’ meetings should be held at Ofafa Memorial Hall in Kisumu where they have an office. “I was shocked when I heard that a section of the Luo Council of Elders members met in a politician’s home yet we have an office in Kisumu. The resolutions of that meeting are null and void,” Ongadi said. Ongadi's vice chairman Thomas Achando said they will go to court. 