More than 80 people evicted to make way for the multi-billion shiling Itare Dam have contracted pneumonia inside makeshift camps. The affected residents are part of 1,278 families evicted from a 600-acre parcel of land in Kuresoi in April last year. ALSO READ:

Squatters in Coast face fresh eviction The families have been camping on the edge of the the dam, demanding resettlement by the Government, which insists the land did not belong to them. Many of the internal refugees, especially women, children and the elderly, are now facing the effects of harsh weather in the area. According to Richard Terer, the nurse in charge at Chepkaburoch Health Centre, at least 80 pneumonia cases from the camp have been handled at the facility. Last month, reports indicated that three people had died of suspected pneumonia inside the camp where conditions have deteriorated in the ongoing heavy rains. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “The elderly were the most affected. We sought help from nearby homes to move nine of them out,” said Simon Cheruiyot, spokesman for the displaced families. While the Government lays claim to the land, the evicted villagers said they had lived on it for decades and had nowhere else to go. “If I had a place to go, I wouldn’t allow my children to suffer in this cold,” said Janet Cherono, who claimed she was born and raised in the area that is now a dam site. Ms Cherono, who is in her late thirties, shares a makeshift tent made from old sacks and cloth with a one-month-old baby and a one-and-a-half-year-old boy. ALSO READ:

Four deny stealing lab equipment The refugees have accused leaders in the area of playing politics with their plight. “We last saw them during campaigns and after elections they disappeared,” said Mr Cheruiyot. Besides pneumonia, the families fear they will be evicted again. The place where the camp stands is still part of the dam. "Nights are becoming longer every day. All we can do is sit and listen to the roar of the bulldozers coming closer," said Cheruiyot.