Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has asked National Super Alliance (NASA) leader Raila Odinga to support his 2022 presidential bid. Mr Oparanya who is ODM deputy party leader told Raila that he has been a faithful servant and it was time to return the favour. “Mulembe nation has supported Raila in the 2007, 2013 and 2017 presidential elections wholeheartedly. I want him to rally his people behind me come 2022,” Oparanya said at Nambirima market in Lugari Sub County. ALSO READ:

Jubilee and NASA supporters equally poor. Or rich He also urged NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, the Amani National Congress (ANC) leader and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula to shelve their ambitions and support his bid. “Wetang’ula and Mudavadi showed signs of cowardice when they did not attend Raila’s swearing in as the People’s President on January 31 at Uhuru Park. A person who is a coward cannot lead the country,” Oparanya said. As he makes his case for the big seat, Oparanya is banking on his development record as governor and experience and exposure while serving as a Minister in President Mwai Kibaki’s administration. Oparanya’s declaration comes at a time when Wetang’ula and Musalia have agreed to collapse their parties and form one strong Luhya party as they position themselves for 2022. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 ANC and Ford Kenya leaders felt left out following the handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta and are determined to secure the Luhya vote. As part of their protest, Wetang’ula and Musalia are holding joint rallies to bring together voters from Vihiga, Kakamega, Busia, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia to consolidate their support base. However, the idea of forming a Mulembe party has met resistance from Jubilee leaders led by Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Sports CS Rashid Echesa. Lusaka has asked Wetang’ula and Mudavadi to drop the idea as it was ill-advised. ALSO READ:

Uhuru-Raila reconciliation offers valuable lessons for troubled Great Lakes region “Anybody advocating for Luhya unity should respect other leaders’ divergent ideas. But what the two are agitating for is based on their selfish interests after falling out with Raila,” he said. Recently, CS Wamalwa rallied the community to unite and present a strong bid for presidency in 2022 as opposed operating as lone rangers like Wetang’ula and Mudavadi. “You cannot be a lone ranger and make it in an election,” Wamalwa said.