Kakamega: Leaders address Pre-devolution Youth Conference at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology Governor: I lost money trying to help youths ALSO READ:

Hotels fully booked as devolution meeting starts Wycliffe Oparanya says members of youth groups went on drinking sprees after receiving project cash. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya yesterday revealed that he started several projects in efforts to uplift youths, but ended up frustrated and disappointed. Mr Oparanya said during his first term, he gave Sh200, 000 to every youth group in the county and told them start pig-rearing projects, but the money went to waste. Expressing disappointment over some initiatives in his first term as governor, he said the young people squandered the money within no time. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “When I gave them money, within a short time the money had disappeared and the youth groups were no more,” he said, adding that the group members went on drinking sprees. He said in yet another attempt to give youths a better future, he started a youth internship programme but it was botched by cronyism and nepotism. “I even tried to start a work-for-pay programme but people abused it. Youths failed to turn up for work but signed for the money through proxies,” he recalled. The governor, who was addressing hundreds of youths at a Pre-devolution Youth Conference at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology in Kakamega, extolled the need for hard work and tolerance, and warned that life was “not like instant coffee”. ALSO READ:

Father in feud with children over who to bury their mum “For me to be governor today, I walked a journey including standing for office as an MP 20 years ago. Now I can say I am ready to be the President of this country. I have all it takes,” he said, adding that the recent handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga was a good thing for youths. Speaking at the same event, National Youth Council Chief Officer Raymond Ochieng said youths were “the currency with which the society trades to guarantee a hopeful future”. “The high rate of youth unemployment should worry all and measures should be taken to urgently fix it so we may lessen crime, poverty and political instability,” he said. Nyeri Governor Kahiga Mutahi emphasised that being a youth was not a qualification for any job and that was why it was important for young people to sharpen their skills. “We have started a Sh30 million investment kitty and it seems the youth are not ready for it. The absorption is worryingly low,” he said. Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati’s wife, Carolyne, said as the country was experiencing the information age, access to information was at the centre of her strategies to reach out to youths. WORK EXPERIENCE ALSO READ:

Devolution conference: It is all systems go in Kakamega She urged young people to volunteer during holidays as a way of gaining work experience and preparing for the job market. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala wondered why the Government could not waive business permit charges the same way it did for land rates to spur innovation and business. Also at the Youth Conference were Youth Fund Director Benson Mutemi, adviser to Youth and Gender Cabinet Secretary Lydia Mathia and Organisation of African Youth Director Churchill Saoke. The event was a precursor to the Devolution Conference that begins in Kakamega tomorrow.