Contractors from upper eastern who dug boreholes on behalf of the Department of Irrigation have complained that they are yet to be paid for work done since 2016. About 100 of them who were contracted to construct water pans and small dams in the region and parts of North Eastern yesterday said the State owes them more than Sh1billion. ALSO READ:

Hunger looms as floods destroy food crops under irrigation The department under the reconstituted Ministry of Water and Irrigation, then headed by current Devolution CS, Eugene Wamalwa contracted them using the Equalisation Funds meant for marginalised Counties. ‘‘Some of the contractors did the work in the 2016/2017 financial year while majority fall under the 2017/2018 budget,’’ said the group’s spokesman Elmi Godana in a statement. ‘‘The lowest owed to each one of is Sh 20million while the highest is supposed to get Sh35million,’’ he revealed. Mr Godana added; ‘‘before the general elections, we have been camping at Maji House and since the new Cabinet was formed, we have been hanging around Kilimo House to demand for our dues which has fallen on deaf ears’’. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation is now headed by Mwangi Kiunjuri. The dams, he said had been completed, inspected and approved by officials and are in use by the residents. ‘‘However, formal handing over is yet to be done by officials from Nairobi and although the dams are in use,’’ he said. Some of the members with pending loans and outstanding bills for hired machineries meant for borehole drilling, they said have had their vehicles and other properties confiscated. ALSO READ:

Local MCAs caution on Mwea land subdivision ‘‘The most affected are those who worked in 2016 and 2017 and they are being pursued by banks and other creditors,’’ said Godana. He claimed senior officers in the Irrigation department are frustrating the members while the process to pay them had long been completed. ‘‘When Wamalwa was at the ministry we tried to see him or the principal secretary and our efforts were not successful,’’ said the official. The contractors said they worked in Marsabit and Isiolo counties and parts of North Eastern and Samburu. They appealed to Mr Kiunjuri to intervene in the matter.