Leaders praised Kenneth Matiba’s courage, honesty, and sacrifice, as his widow gave an emotional account of a man she first met 67 years ago. President Uhuru Kenyatta described Matiba-whose ill health is traced to his detention for his push for pluralism-as a selfless leader, who sacrificed a lot to make sure Kenya enjoyed the fruits of democracy. ALSO READ:

Uhuru launches Sh50b fund for town upgrades “We gather here today to join the Matiba family to mourn the passing of a father, husband, true nationalist of this great country. A man who was willing to sacrifice even his life and property to make Kenya better,” President Kenyatta said of the veteran politician who died on April 15. He added: “He was my mentor and personal friend. Good leaders are remembered for their good deeds. This is a man who dared to do what others had feared. Who, among us, is willing to surrender personal ambitions for the benefit of all?" Mentor youths To remember Matiba, Kenyatta promised to mentor the youths so that they are able to hold various leadership positions. “We should nurture and mentor young people just like Matiba did. Good leaders are never scared to motivate and hand over leadership positions to a new generation. We will do this in honour of Matiba," he told mourners yesterday, during the memorial service at All Saints Cathedral, Nairobi. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Deputy President William Ruto described Matiba as a fallen hero, who, in a special way, made huge personal sacrifices to make the country better. “I never knew him earlier on at a personal level, but we are beneficiaries of his sacrifices. I remember when we were in college, we witnessed Matiba spearheading the push for multi-party politics so that we could have a free, accommodating Kenya,” said Ruto. He said Matiba and his comrades' efforts at the time made Kenya freer and a place where people from all walks of life can make a contribution to build the country. “Through Matiba’s dreams, ours dreams and our children’s are valid. His call for hard work informed my thoughts on leadership. We must not squander these efforts through parochialism,” the DP said. ALSO READ:

Senator Moi visits Matiba He added: “Let us build on their aspirations to vouch for a united country where every Kenyan can dream and achieve their dreams. This way we will not have let down the sacrifices of those who paid dearly, some through their lives, for an expanded democratic space.” Edith, Matiba’s widow, remembered her late husband, who she met 67 years ago, with heart-moving tributes. She recalled how she came to know Matiba as a young man, when he enrolled at Alliance Boys High School. Tea and food “His father was a friend of my older brother, so together they visited my parents’ home in Thogoto in 1951. As I did for any visitor, I served him tea and food, but didn’t take particular notice of him,” she recollected. Describing her late husband as very determined, she said she was not surprised when she joined Matiba at Makerere University in 1957 and the two developed a special friendship. “I was his focus during our courtship that blossomed after graduation. Every other weekend, he would drive from Nairobi to visit me in Kitale, where I was posted as a teacher. He soon proposed to me. We married in 1961 and only a few days ago, we celebrated our 57th wedding anniversary together,” Edith said. ALSO READ:

Uhuru: Gay rights 'of no importance' to Kenya She said that although her husband was a busy man, he always had time for his family and the society at large. “Despite constant pressure to join politics from the 1960s, he remained focused on his 10-10-10 plan. He wanted to have 10 years in government, 10 in private business and 10 in politics. He was generous beyond our family. I often laughed at him that he had holes in his pockets because he used to give out all his money,” Edith said. But trouble began when he was arrested for agitating for multi-party politics. “Immediately after his abrupt release from prison in 1991, we rushed him to London for emergency treatment for the stroke he suffered while in detention. He suffered a second stroke after a few days,” Edith said. She continued: "The two strokes nearly wiped him out. He was semi-paralysed and lost his speech. He had to learn letters of the alphabet, how to eat and walk. But through determination, he recovered to vie for presidency in 1992.” She urged Kenyans to emulate her late husband as his dream was dignity, financial freedom and social justice for every Kenyan. Susan, Matiba’s eldest child, described her father as fearless and one who was always ready to speak his mind. “He was fearless, bold and spoke his mind. He showed love and concern for people, but was not afraid to chide and correct. He dreamt big and fought to achieve those dreams. Let us cast aside our fears and step up to challenges and opportunities,” said Susan. Joe Kibe, a family friend and former Permanent Secretary, said Matiba’s call for review of the Constitution earned him enemies. ALSO READ:

Law of unrelated things at play in political events “You either liked or detested him. He quit Government because of the slow way of doing things. When he agitated for the review of the Constitution, the leaders then, some who are present here, called him a traitor who wanted to overthrow the Government,” said Kibe. Dr Joseph Hanningtone Owuor, Matiba's classmate at Alliance Boys and Makerere University, said if current political leaders practised what Matiba stood for, there would be no corruption. “Matiba was a prefect at Alliance and he is the only one who had a pair of shoes. He was popular and spoke his mind. He lived by Alliance High motto of 'Strong to Serve'. He had energy to serve. He was not served,” Owuor said. He added: “If Matiba’s property is audited, I am sure that it will be found that he worked for all his money. If our leaders today did the same instead of looting billions of shillings, we can even have only 20 MPs.” Daniel Gachukia, who, together with Matiba owned the Riara Schools, described him as generous and strict. “When I lost my clothes in Makerere, he gave me one of the two jackets he owned. When I visited him in hospital in London and cut his hair, he asked for a mirror to instruct me how to do the job. If he assumed political leadership, corruption would be no more,” Gachukia said. Peter Buruku, who worked with Matiba at East African Breweries, called on the Government to honour him by returning the company to Kenyans. “Matiba fought to make EABL a Kenyan firm. At one point Kenyans were owning 85 per cent. Today, the company and even its headquarters is owned by foreigners,” said Buruku. Gender rule Former Minister Nyiva Mwenda said if Matiba were President, Kenya could have attained the two-third gender rule. ALSO READ:

Uhuru to attend G7 talks Marsden Madoka, another former minister, credited his success in life to Matiba. “He is the one who told me to resign from the army and took me to EABL to be in charge of personnel. He instructed me that the company must have the face of Kenya. He also used sport to unite Kenyans,” said Madoka. Former President Mwai Kibaki, Mama Ngina Kenyatta, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, Rachel Ruto, NASA principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula, Martha Karua, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata, Cabinet Secretaries James Macharia and Amina Mohammed attended the service. Another funeral service for Matiba will be held today at Ihura Stadium in Murang’a, before his body is cremated tomorrow at the Lang’ata Crematorium.