Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga has nominated Caroline Wanjiru Karugu as his deputy, ending months of speculation. Ms Karugu's name was yesterday forwarded to the county assembly where Deputy Speaker Samuel Kariuki announced it to members. She is currently on the board of Geothermal Development Company to which she was recently appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Karugu, 40, is expected to to be vetted by the county assembly on April 18 and, if approved, will become the first woman to take up the position in the county. Karugu (pictured) has 15 years' experience in the capital markets and financial services industry, having worked with the East African Stock Exchanges Association and Securities Industry Training Institute. The governor recently admitted there had been intense lobbying for the deputy governor position and promised to hold wide consultations before picking a candidate. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Various forums “There has been intense lobbying from various forums asking me to appoint a deputy governor. Ultimately it will be a decision that must undergo a process and should not be rushed," he said. “I would like to pick someone who is loyal and who will deliver on the promises made to the people of Nyeri. What matters is if they can deliver," said Mr Kahiga. “Let me make it clear to everyone that I am not under any pressure to appoint anyone and therefore I will not make a rushed decision to please anyone.” Several leaders had been proposed as deputy governors on social media sites including former county MP Priscillah Nyokabi, former governor Samwel Wamathai and Athi Water Services Board chairman Wachira Keen. Road accident Also proposed were former senator Mutahi Kagwe and Catherine Gakuru, widow of Governor Wahome Gakuru, who died in a road accident last year, soon after he took over for his first term. The position has been vacant since Kahiga, who was the deputy governor took over the running of the county. His decision puts an end to speculation as residents wait for the county assembly to vet his nominee to the position.