Governor Lee Kinyanjui has ordered the demolition of all structures built along waterways in Naivasha. Issuing the two-day notice, the governor said no structures would be spared in the operation that would also target storeyed buildings within the central business district. ALSO READ:

Huge wage bills, legal hurdles weigh down new governors This follows perennial flooding in the lakeside town, affecting several businesses and homes. Earlier, residents had blocked the busy Kariuki Chotara Street by planting cabbages and trees to protest the poor state of roads. Speaking after visiting the town, Mr Kinyanjui ordered the Department of Public Works in the county to embark on the demolitions. He admitted that constructions along the waterways and drains had contributed to flooding in the town. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “I have issued a directive that all the structures along the drains be demolished as this is one of the main causes of flooding in Naivasha,” he said. Kinyanjui also said his government was working with the Kenya National Highways Authority to address the deteriorating situation along the Maai Mahiu-Narok road, which has been flooded in the last few weeks. Stanley Karanja, the leader of majority in county assembly, blamed senior county officers for poor planning that had led to the mess. He called for the sacking of the town planning officer and surveyor for approving structures along waterways. ALSO READ:

DP Ruto pledges support for pyrethrum revival plan “We welcome the directive by the governor that all structures on waterways be brought down and this should be carried out with immediate effect,” he said. Area Jubilee Party chairman James Karimi, who accompanied the governor, blamed poor workmanship for the problem. Mr Karimi, who is also a trader in the town, said all water from higher grounds should be directed out of the town. Counting losses “Traders and families are counting their losses, running into thousands of shillings, and it is time the county government sent in all the machinery to address the current problem,” he said. The chairman of Naivasha Matatu Owners Association Stephen Mungai said the public transport sector had also recorded huge losses due to bad roads occasioned by the flooding. “We fully support the directive that all structures along the drainage system should be brought down and no one should be spared in this operation,” he said.