Six Bungoma county board members who were axed by Governor Wycliffe Wangamati have gotten a reprieve after an Industrial ordered the county government to reinstate them. Justice Nduma Nderi who delivered the judgement also ordered that they be paid their salary arrears. ALSO READ:

Man to serve 25 years jail term for killing police officer in Bungoma The six, Gideon Sirai, Janet Manyasi, Elizabeth Wanyonyi, Peter Masengeli, Steven Wesonga and Bonvenja Wasikoyo were sent packing late last year after MCAs voted to have them sacked over allegations of gross misconduct. Following the move, members of the board sought court redress where they argued that they were wrongfully dismissed from their positions. They had accused the county assembly of flouting the constitution and had contested the process that led to their dismissal. The six who were employed during the tenure of former governor Ken Lusaka had sought for orders to allow them to be reinstated in their positions pending the hearing and determination of the case. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Yesterday however, Justice Nderi ruled that the County government had no mandate or jurisdiction of disbanding or firing members of the board. "I, therefore, find the petitioners were wrongfully dismissed and by that, the County government is ordered to have their jobs reinstated and their salaries paid," said Nderi. After the judgement, Amos Makokha, a defense advocate representing Wangamati said that they will consult with the governor on whether to lodge an appeal or not. "If Governor Wycliffe Wangamati accepts the court’s decision, then we will live by it. But if he doesn’t, we will launch an appeal in the higher court," stated Makokha. ALSO READ:

Bid to reduce pregnancies, soar up enrolment figures In December last year, the petitioners obtained temporary orders barring the county government from constituting a new county public service board.