Traders in Baraka estate in Njoro are counting their losses after their business premises were demolished by the Kenya National Highways Authority (KeNHA) on Wednesday. The authority demolished more than 40 structures including shops and residential houses built along the Njoro-Elburgon highway. ALSO READ:

Mai Mahiu-Narok road cut-off again Daniel Kimani, one of the traders, said he was in his shop when KeNHA officers came and began demolishing the building. “Officers from KeNHA came at around noon and demolished my shop, destroying all my goods. I requested them to allow me to remove some of the items but they did not hear me,” said Mr Kimani. The trader said he lost property worth about Sh1.5 million, which included the cost of the building and items in his shop. The structures had been earmarked for demolishing although the owners said that they were not served with a notice. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 David Macharia, another trader, said business operators along the highway were not issued with the demolition notice. Spotted bulldozer “I was interacting with my clients in my shop when I spotted a bulldozer that immediately came and began demolishing the shop. It is sad all this happened without official notice,” he said. This is the second demolition in Njoro in less than three months. All structures along the road have been earmarked for demolition. ALSO READ:

Structures on waterways to be demolished Residents faulted KeNHA and the county government, saying they should have been given more time because construction of the road was not going to kick off immediately. “We bought these parcels of land from the municipal government. We have not intruded on the road reserve as claimed by KeNHA,” said David Kimani, another trader. Among the affected areas are Njoro town, Maili Tatu, Kisima, Kamwaura and Arimi. A similar exercise has also been undertaken along the Nakuru-Kabarak road following road extension works that are ongoing. KeNHA Assistant Director of Corporate Communications Charles Njogu told The Standard once a building on the road was marked X, the owners should move quickly and demolish it before the authority's machinery arrives.