Things are falling apart at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and its chairman, Wafula Chebukati is simply the centre that cannot hold. He has done in a year, what took Raila Odinga three years, many tear gas Mondays and a joint parliamentary push to do. Mr Chebukati has torn the commission apart and is a classic example of the weakest link. The work of a chair in any commission is to be the glue that binds it, instead, Mr Chebukati is like a repulsive magnet that has driven four commissioners out of office; a single one who ran away to the USA and the three who resigned this month. ALSO READ:

To end curse of IEBC, change how poll chiefs are selected How is  one chair and still divide his own commission? This means either that people find him to be a repulsive person or simply a slimy one, either way no one seems to want to stick by him. Is it that Mr Chebukati is no leader, that he lacks tact, inspiration and the skill to hold anything together? Time will tell. I know there are those who want to blame Mr Chiloba and rightly so, but for me, Mr Chebukati is the ultimate authority and the ultimate Returning Officer. He can’t run from the blame and he cannot hide behind Mr Chiloba’s skirt no matter how convenient. Why do I say this? Because Mr Chebukati failed in dealing a decisive blow to Mr Chiloba. He managed the whole process with the finesse of a monkey at best or a bull in a China Shop at worst. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Missed chance He should have painted a vivid picture of his CEO in good time; he should have crafted a narrative that landed the baby of blame in Mr Chiloba’s lap. If Mr Chiloba then proceeded to denounce the child, then the paternity test of public opinion should have settled the matter. Instead Mr Chebukati failed to bring his commission to heel. He was flanked by less than half his commission and the resignation of the other three, including his deputy chair, is nothing less of a sign that his throne at the IEBC is not secure. ALSO READ:

Forces fueling IEBC wars The commission as it stands today is officially dead and being surprised at it, is equal to the parents who were shocked by social media's “#IFIKIEWAZAZI”. Parents can be funny. If the fruit is rotten we must ask ourselves; who planted it? The saying goes that the apple doesn’t fall far from the tree, and if the apple is a rotten apple, we are sure who is to blame. The rotten fruit was nurtured in our homes as we ignored our children, raised them up via proxies, teachers, house helps and social media/ music videos. These kids are behaving like their real parents and idols. So no need to blame somebody else. Golden opportunity Similarly, Mr Chebukati is surprised by what he himself has bred within the IEBC: ineptitude, malaise and lack of teamwork. If you can’t motivate as highly paid an employee as a commissioner, what hope do you have as a leader? Mr Chiloba and the damning report is therefore Chebukati’s "ifikiewazazi" picture and the shame of the nakedness of the commission is there for all to see. I must, however, thank Mr Chebukati; this break up comes at the best of times. It comes in a season of peace, a season where Raila Odinga is at peace with Uhuru Kenyatta, and therefore a golden opportunity to prepare IEBC several years before the 2022 General Election. This will give us enough time to choose more carefully and to choose better. The fat lady is singing loudly and Mr Chebukati should read the writing on the wall, for it reads: "Mene Mene Teke". The jig is up, and he should quickly divorce from the IEBC on grounds of lack of cohesion between him and the team. When the cookie is crumbling, the centre has no choice than to accept blame. The centre is not holding, things have fallen apart and there is no point for Mr Chebukati to remain as king of nothing. Chebukati, ride on into the sunset, we won’t miss you, but we will remember you. Adios Amigo. ALSO READ:

MPs move to counter IEBC resignation Mr Bichachi is a Communication Consultant. bichachi@gmail.com