WAJIR, KENYA: Several residents in Wajir town were treated to a free medical camp orgarnised by the County Women Representative, Fatuma Gedi. This is despite objection by the County Government who largely boycotted the event saying that they were not informed prior. ALSO READ:

NHIF: Health insurance for 3 million secondary school students ready The two-day event from Tuesday to Wednesday was officially launched by the Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. Hundreds of people turned up to benefit in the free medical check-up and treatment by specialists drawn from Nairobi and nurses from the county. Speaking at Township Primary School ground, the Kirinyaga County Women Representative Ms Purity Ngirici, who is the chairperson of the Kenya Women Parliamentary Association (KEWOPA), termed the event a success, adding that she would urge other women elected leaders to follow suit. ''I want to thank Ms Fatuma Gedi for bringing this project to Wajir because this is the first time such an event is taking place in Wajir where free medical checkup is offered,'' she said. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Her remarks were echoed by the CS Wamalwa, who hailed the free medical camp, saying it goes a long way in promoting the Government's effort to provide affordable healthcare under the Big Four. ''I want to take this message to President Uhuru Kenyatta that Fatuma is promoting affordable healthcare at the local level,'' he said. The event saw 1,757 people served and hundred others booked for the upcoming similar events set for wards across the county. ''This is not the last time we are orgarnising such event. We will find you at your places and deep into the wards,'' said Ms Gedi. ALSO READ:

Thika Superhighway, Mombasa road get special lanes for buses According to a lead specialist at the event, Dr Jonathan, over 10 people were diagnosed with cervical and breast cancer cases. ''Unfortunately they were not aware that what they assumed was a lump was actually cancer,'' said the doctor. At the end of the event, the CS flagged off lorries of food rations to the sub-counties. 