A Kenyan journalist is stranded at Apollo Hospital in Ahmedabad, India after he failed to raise money for his treatment. In an emotional video, the father of one gave an account of his predicament, explaining that he has been in the country for five weeks and can not continue with treatment due to financial constraints. ALSO READ:

Aga Khan University Master of Arts in digital journalism programme launched “For four weeks I have not received any treatment and my condition is deteriorating. I ask well-wishers to please help in any way because I am at a hospital that has all the necessary treatment yet I do not have the funds to access treatment,” he said. Omondi said the hospital continues to let him stay, but no doctors were attending to him. The 31-year-old was diagnosed with acute leukaemia and was admitted to Kenyatta National Hospital in January this year. The hospital, however, did not have the capacity to do a bone marrow transplant and after consultations with his family, he sought for an affordable alternative. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “Kenya has no facility for bone marrow transplant, South Africa was our first choice but the Sh12 million which was required was too expensive,” he said. Leap of faith Omondi raised some funds and took a leap of faith by traveling to India, hoping and praying that his fundraiser back home would help in finalising the treatment. After the first round of chemotherapy, however, the money was depleted and there was no way he could continue with treatment. He needs Sh6.2 million to finish his treatment but the hospital estimates the amount could be higher. “So far I have spent Sh1.7 million. I have an outstanding bill of Sh800,000. I need support with the second round of chemotherapy at Sh2 million and a bone marrow transplant at Sh3.5 million,” he said. Omondi who was offered Sh480,000 by National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) has written to the CEO through the Ministry of Health for additional funding. He says even though he is not getting any treatment at the moment he needs to pay Sh7.5 million in total since they are still charging him for staying at the facility. Omondi hopes to be back in the country for the birth of his second child this May and prays that Kenyans can make the miracle happen.