Mandera Governor Ali Roba has earmarked Sh1 billion to support education, with Sh500 million set to put up a human health research centre. The centre is being done in partnership with Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI). ALSO READ:

Govt stops construction of Kenya-Somalia border wall On Thursday, the governor disbursed Sh40.5 million tranche aimed at offering access to educational opportunities for learners in the county. "A total of 5,689 students will benefit. They include 1,308 in Colleges and University, some 4,154 students in secondary schools, another 121 teacher trainees at Mandera Teachers Training College and 106 students at Mandera Technical Training College," said the when he launched the bursary fund. Governor Roba said the region has suffered years of marginalised education and announced his commitment in plugging education gaps in the county. "Mandera County Government has borne the brunt of terror shocks when non-local skilled workers have abandoned us in the hours of need. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 This calls for a homegrown safety net, which we have started rolling out aggressively in training our own skilled labour," said the governor. He announced partnership with Kenya Medical Training College where the county is investing Sh200 million in 2018/2019 financial year to build the college and fully sponsor students. And in yet another strategic partnership, the county has entered an agreement with the Ministry of Education in building a Teacher Training College and sponsor the students fully at a cost of Sh200 million. It also has a partnership with Technical University of Kenya to build the college and sponsor students fully. ALSO READ:

Donor aid a bitter pill for local firms in lucrative drugs trade "So far over Sh200million investment with an additional 100million is to support infrastructure development over next financial year," said Roba. The county boss said his administration was keen in creating a society with adequately skilled men and women, capable of bringing about all-round development.