In the world of science, research is currency. Scientists study people, places and things to discover and invent stuff that will elevate the human experience. The folks who do this are called principle investigators. Principle investigators study life in its various incarnations so that they can understand what works for humanity, and what doesn’t. They use their data to affect policy and practice so that they can make the world a more habitable place. Research is often thought of as purely ‘scientific’, but it very often extends beyond a petri dish. So ultimately, science becomes more of a verb than a noun, applicable to a broad range of events and phenomena including the one-man whirlwind that is Joshua Miguna Miguna. ALSO READ:

The other side of Miguna Miguna This is one man who is holding an entire nation-state at ransom, be it from a toilet at Kenya’s international airport, or a passenger lounge in Dubai. Two things that should definitely be investigated are how Miguna’s phone remains on his person - despite any number of unfortunate events - and why it rarely seems to run out of charge. But on a serious note, Kenya is under the microscope. As a government, and a collective of citizens, we are under investigation. And the self-styled General, one JMM, is a case study. He has become the poster boy for everything that could go horribly wrong with this country if well-wishing countrymen and women remain silent in the face of gross injustice. This is one side of it, the fact that state agents use court orders to wipe their backsides, with the utmost contempt for those who issue them. Worse still, that their surrogates have the temerity to fall back on the ‘rule of law’ as a defence of the indefensible. Lessons The so-called ‘lords of impunity’ could have upheld their ‘rule of law’ defence had they not forced JMM onto a flight - not once, but twice - without any regard for due process, the same due process they continue to require of the embattled lawyer. Now it is a free-for-all, which in all likelihood will degenerate into a contest between both camps to see how far the limits of the law can be stretched. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 But hey, let’s not forget history. When JMM ended up in Canada the first time, he was fleeing an autocratic state. He did not voluntarily abandon the country of his birth as has been widely implied. Nor was it legally possible for him to irrevocably denounce a citizenship that he acquired by virtue of nativity. That ought to be a factor of consideration for anyone attempting to examine the legalities of the current fiasco surrounding his citizenship. Another factor would be that he was cleared to run for Governor of Nairobi. One of the central conditions required of candidates is proof of Kenyan citizenship. That said, it doesn’t take a political scientist to conclude that JMM’s citizenship, or lack thereof, only became an issue after the faux ‘swearing-in’, another event that drew more wrath from the State than was necessary. The protege But as I say, that’s one side of it: The other is that JMM is only part ‘General’- the other part is drama king. He has milked this situation for all its worth, and rightly so. I want to be mad at him but I can’t because the People’s President should have known he was creating a monster when he called upon his frenemy to administer oath. ALSO READ:

'Kalonzo in 2022', say leaders The former premier let the genie out of the bottle and no one, short of God himself, will put that genie back in. To be fair, JMM has every right to feel aggrieved. Unfortunately for those who have given him cause, he is not the type to walk quietly into the sunset, especially when the whole world knows he has a valid claim. If Raila Odinga was ever JMM’s political mentor, then the child has become the father of the man. Subduing the ‘General’ will be a messy and noisy affair, and there will be casualties across the political divide. In the meantime, this saga has given legal minds a good opportunity to test the flexibility and applicability of Kenya’s various laws as they relate to the progressive values of the constitution. This is a perfect opportunity to ponder the usefulness of constitutionalism when it comes up against deviant political machinations. In this particular case, legal minds must investigate the true meaning of ‘native citizenship’ to determine whether it is something that the State can confer and withdraw at whim. Which will be an easy one because even a rocket scientist will tell you that it is not.  Ms Masiga is Peace and Security Editor, The Conversation Africa