34-year-old David Nazir who was admitted to the Coast Provincial General Hospital after swallowing a toothbrush on Sunday 1 is now all smiles after a successful endoscopic procedure was conducted on him. Endoscopy is the procedural examination of the inside of the body by using a lighted, flexible instrument called an endoscope. In general, an endoscope is introduced into the body through a natural opening such as the mouth or anus ALSO READ:

Two attacked over allegations of witchcraft in Kilifi A copy of an X-ray showed what appears to be a full brush lodged in his stomach. Hospital authorities did not address this matter because journalists had been barred from the ward. From his hospital bed, David Nazir explained that he accidentally swallowed the brush as he was brushing his teeth in the morning.  Although the X-ray shows evidence of the brush lodged inside him he claimed he was not in pain amid reports doctors are still observing to decide how to extract the object. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He told The Standard that he can only eat liquid food and water. “I am in shock since I have been brushing my teeth for the last 30 years only to swallow a toothbrush,” said Nazir who claimed that as he was, vigorously, brushing his teeth the brush slid from his hands and plunged down his gullet very fast. The incident occurred in Paziani village, Ganze in Kilifi County. Nazir a father of two said he tried to pull out the toothbrush before it slid down into his throat with no success. ALSO READ:

Two attacked over allegations of witchcraft “It is a normal toothbrush that I swallowed. I was cleaning my tongue,” added Nazir. He pleaded with doctors to remove the object from his body. “I hope the hospital will do whatever they do to remove the toothbrush from my body, although I feel no pain, it’s unusual that I have a foreign thing in my body,” Nazir added. Nazir has been advised by the doctor to avoid eating solid food but instead drink fluids to avoid pushing the toothbrush further. Rose Masha, the sister to Nazir said the act was so unusual and since she was born she has never heard of anyone swallowing a toothbrush. “I received the news when I was in church, it was so worrying and at some point, I thought whoever sent me that message was joking. I asked my pastor to pray with med over the same,” said Rose. The patient is in a good condition health wise and he can even speak. ALSO READ:

County to boost jabs after medics' strike  