Laikipia County has launched an inaugural water conference in Nanyuki. The conference which brings stakeholders in water business including river water users, water companies, water resource management authority among others. ALSO READ:

Governor Joho in Madrid for water desalination plan The conference which intends to create a strategy for a consistent water supply among the residents has attracted investors in private sector, and the National Government. According to Laikipia County Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, the county government will benefit with three mega dams in Nanyuki, Wiyumiririe and Rumuruti. The three dams will be funded by the national government at a cost of Sh300 million each in effort to improve residents’ livelihood and livestock production in the region. "Agriculture is the key source in income in Laikipia and we need sustainable water supply,"said Muriithi. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The two days event is graced by Winnie Guchu Chief Administrative Secretary for water and irrigation representing the cabinet secretary for water Simon Chelugui. County executive in charge of water Njenga Kahiro said that it is unfortunate that there is no set strategy to harvest rain water to serve residents during dry seasons. "Water is a precious commodity and we are prioritising it for household consumption and irrigation," said Kahiro adding that the residents would be educated on water governance. Construction of water dams across the fifteen wards in the county is among the projects put in plan in the master plan. ALSO READ:

Water everywhere but not a drop in Mombasa Political leaders noted that the national and county governments should work together we ensure ware becomes focus of national development. "There is need to increase allocation for water in our budgets so that we give our people water to drink and irrigate, "said Laikipia West Patrick Mariru. Other guests who attended the conference are Laikipia County MP Catherine Waruguru, County Executive Committee members (CECs), MCAs, and investors in water sector.