The Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute (KMFRI) has warned that unwarranted human activities will lead to extinction of the tilapia species in Lake Victoria. One of the activities cited is cage fish farming that has gained momentum in the lake. ALSO READ:

I use silt to get giant healthy vegetables KMFRI Assistant Director for Fresh Water Aquaculture Paul Orina said introduction of new tilapia species causes serious extinction of tilapia in the lake. Addressing fish farmers at Homa Bay, Orina said introduction of new tilapia species will lead to birth of tilapia that cannot survive ecological conditions in the lake. “Introducing new tilapia leads to birth of hybrid tilapia, which are weak hence cannot survive environmental conditions of Lake Victoria. This will cause extinction of tilapia, culminating in decreased fish population in the lake,” said Orina. He told cage fish farmers to breed the original species of tilapia, which he termed Tilapia Nilotica. The researcher said many farmers engage in fish farming without conducting proper research. “Farmers should undertake research to determine the breed they want to pursue in cage fish farming,” said Orina. He said investors should engage stakeholders to avoid conflict resulting from the practice. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 National Beach Management Units Chairman Tom Guda and Homa Bay County Beach Management Unit chairperson Edward Oremo said some fish cages are placed against marine laws. Guda said the cages posed environmental danger and that an audit is being done to remove illegal ones. “The law states that cages placed in the lake should be done in consultation with fishermen. But this is contrary to what is happening,” said Guda. Oremo said placing cages illegally will raise conflict between investors and fishermen. “It is unfortunate that everybody now wants to place a cage in Lake Victoria regardless of required procedure,” said Oremo. ALSO READ:

How we built a Sh4 million fish enterprise