The widow of one of three brothers killed in Naivasha early last year was Sunday found dead. Rebecca Gathoni's body was found at Sachag'wan in Molo sub-county. ALSO READ:

Pope urges end to 'carnage' in Syria Gathoni was married to Paul Ndirangu, 32, who was killed together with his brothers Daniel Ikenya, 24, and Mwai Ndirangu, 28, and alongside their cousin, Francis Kariuki, 26. The four went missing after they went to register as voters at Barnabas trading centre on January 18. Their bodies were found in Kamae Forest in Kiambu County on January 30. The mother-of-two went to Sachag'wan shopping centre on Saturday but did not return. Her body was found on Sunday. Rongai police boss Japheth Kioko said Gathoni's body was found at around 9.30am more than a kilometre from the trading centre. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 "The woman is suspected to have been killed at around 2am. Preliminary investigations indicate Gathoni may have been strangled," Kioko said. The officer said a sack was found at the scene, which was believed to have been used to carry the body from where the victim was killed. Her shoes were also at the scene. "It's not clear what caused death although we suspect she might have been strangled. She may also have died after taking excess alcohol," said the OCPD. The body, according to Kioko did not have physical injuries. It was taken to county hospital mortuary for postmortem. ALSO READ:

Police officer killed by cattle raiders in West Pokot "Police are investigating the death. We want to know what killed the woman. If anyone was involved, then we will not rest until we bring them to book," said Kioko. Gathoni's father-in-law, Manasseh Gachagua, asked the police to speed up the investigations. "It is regrettable that even before I could get justice for my sons who died under unclear circumstances, my daughter-in-law dies. I am still mourning my sons. It is a sad day for my family," he said. Beef up security Residents have also asked the police to beef up security in the area. They accused security officers of laxity which they said had seen crime soar. Nominated MCA Rachel Maru said it was regrettable that many people in the area had died in unclear circumstances and asked the police to enhance patrols. ALSO READ:

Land at heart of Mt Elgon killings and displacement