A police officer on trial for corruption was Monday arrested by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for the second time while allegedly taking bribes in Nairobi. The commission detectives conducted a sting operation near City Stadium, Nairobi and arrested a Traffic Officer, No. 75993 CPL Dan Kangara Mburu. ALSO READ:

Questions over Sh1.5 billion paid out to land owner The Commission officers searched him and recovered Sh3250 in various denominations from his pockets. A group of matatu operators using Jogoo Road had complained to the commission of the officer’s conduct. Interestingly, the same police officer was arrested in another sting operation on November 17, 2017 and charged before Milimani Anti-Corruption Court on November 29, 2017.  The case is still ongoing in court. The Commission communicated the matter to the Deputy Inspector General (Kenya Police) on November 30, 2017 for the interdiction of the officer as per section 62(1) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act. 2003. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 However, the officer told the investigators the information on the interdiction has never been communicated to him. The arrested officer was detained at Integrity Centre where he was undergoing interview and statement recording.  An inquiry file has been opened to gather more evidence. Meanwhile, a police officer attached to the residence of Nairobi Regional Commissioner William Thuku is under investigation after he claimed he was robbed of his gun at his place of work. The officer claimed he was attacked and robbed of the rifle at the resident along State House Road, almost 500 meters from State House. Many other top government officials live in the same compound. ALSO READ:

MPs summon CS Matiang’i on Sh3.3b land deal He claimed thugs who had arrived at the compound in a car attacked him and robbed him of the weapon. Senior police officers led by Nairobi police boss Joseph Ole Tito visited the scene as part of the probe into the incident. It is not clear how the said thugs managed to go through a gate that is there. The same compound is occupied by top government officials who are guarded all the time  