An angry mob in Busia town on Tuesday lynched two of the three suspected lethal gang that has been terrorising members of the public in the Western region. They arrived at a local hardware owned by an Indian citizen in the morning on a motorbike armed with rifles and ordered the owner to surrender everything. ALSO READ:

Protest over surge in rustling The three managed to escape with more than one million shillings. However, boda boda operators pursued them before cornering the two at the Central Business District as one escaped. The stolen money was not recovered but one Ugandan rifle was recovered from the murdered suspects. The motorbike they were using was also confiscated and taken to Busia police station. It is believed that the three had committed another robbery act at the Imara Supermarket in Vihiga County on Saturday killed a fourth-year university student during the incident. According to an eyewitness the deceased was talking on phone outside the supermarket and was not aware of what was happening but the robbers though he was alerting the police. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 They also killed a woman at Munugi village and injured her husband who is still admitted in a local hospital still in Vihiga. The Close Circuit Television (CCTV) footage shows one man in leather jacket checks in the supermarket and in a short while guns shot is fired at the entry. The three then proceeds to the counter to collect the money and stuff them in bags. The incidents took less than 30 seconds before they fled on a motorbike. Busia Police Station OCPD Makau Masai confirmed the incident but said the identity of the two robbery suspects was yet to be identified. ALSO READ:

Video of horrific rape incident on a Nairobi street goes viral He urged members of public not to take law in their hands but to arrest suspects and hand over to police and face the law. “They entered into the hardware and ordered the owner to lie down, he complied and the three suspects made away with more than one million shillings,” said Makau “They tried to confuse boda boda riders by throwing money and shot in the air to scare the public away but that did not help them as they were eventually cornered and killed,” the OCPD added. One of the boda boda operators in Busia town said they were bitter since most of their colleagues have died in the hands of criminals. “We have buried more than 20 boda boda operators who are killed and their motorbikes stolen, we decided to follow the suspects and kill them,” he said. The residents urged police to beef security  ALSO READ:

Class three boy kills 13-year-old girl