A deputy county commissioner was yesterday charged in a Kisumu court over the awarding of a Sh14 million tender. Murang’a East Deputy Commissioner Kepha Marube was charged alongside Zakayo Ojuok, Tobias Oloo, Thomas Mboya, Collins Owino and Amos Okello for failing to comply with procurement procedures. ALSO READ:

MPs kick KRA boss out of hearing The six denied the charges before Principal Magistrate Patrick Olengo and were released on a bond of Sh2 million or a cash bail of Sh1 million each. The court heard that on May 2014, Mr Marube, serving as the interim Siaya County secretary, irregularly executed a contract between the county government and Samco Traders for Sh14.9 million. The tender was supposed to facilitate the purchase, supply and installation of assorted sports facilities. According to the charge sheet, Marube is also accused of abusing his office by awarding the tender. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Procurement officer Mr Ojuok, a procurement officer, was also charged with forgery after the prosecution said he faked a document that aided in the awarding of the tender. The court heard that he allegedly falsified minutes of a meeting that was purportedly held by the county tender award committee. Mr Ombaya, who worked as a county works officer, was accused of facilitating a Sh5.6 million payment by issuing interim certificates for the installation of the assorted sports facilities without visiting sites to confirm if work had been done. ALSO READ:

Tender mess that has denied Treasury billions in excise tax Oloo, Owino and Okello were also charged with issuing an acceptance report based on a fraudulent payment certificate. Lawyers representing the accused asked the court to award them favourable bond terms, arguing that they were public officers. Peres Odoyo, one of the defence lawyers, asked the magistrate to release them on a personal bond. By yesterday evening, the six were still being held as their friends and relatives sought means to bail them out. The case will be mentioned on May 2 and heard on June 8.