A new wave of attacks involving street children in Kisumu is worrying stakeholders as Kenya joined the world in marking the International Street children’s Day. At least two street urchins have been killed in one week, amid fears that the fight for survival was turning vicious. Lawrence Otieno, died last week after his fellow street urchin stabbed him using broken bottles. His body was removed to Jaramogi Teaching and Referral Hospital mortuary. ALSO READ:

What could be causing frequent fires in Kisumu’s Kibuye market? The other victim was killed during struggle over food donated by a Good Samaritan on Monday. He is yet to be identified. Davis Okombo, a children rights activist who has been working to rehabilitate street children in Kisumu said he knew Otieno and was helping organise his burial tomorrow. Mr Okombo, who is the director of a non-governmental organisation spearheading Public Policy and Children’s rights-Uhuru Community Development Project said street children have become more violent. “It is something that should worry all of us. The street families are becoming more aggressive and violent. It reminds me of the gang violence once witnessed in Los Angeles  in the US,” he said. Otieno, was accosted by a street urchin at Kamass in broad daylight and stabbed in the chest. The attacker fled the scene and has not been arrested. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Yesterday, street families appealed to well-wishers to donate money towards the burial. “We are getting good money but I can’t divulge the amount. We must give our friend a decent send off," said a street boy, who identified himself as Ochi. He warned that they would hunt for the assailant and kill him. “We have been told he fled to Luanda. We will go after him and kill him,” said Ochi, as he sniffed a bottle of glue. Okombo said he traced Otieno’s relatives to Alego in Siaya, where he will be buried tomorrow. “He is an orphan and he has been living in the streets for sometime now,” he said. ALSO READ:

Con woman targeting MCAs The Kisumu County Director for Children Services, Humphrey Wandeo, said street families have grown to 466 in the past one year. 