 NAIROBI, KENYA: Sony Middle East and Africa is expanding its line of Pico Projector with the new ultra-portable MP-CD1 in the Kenya. ALSO READ:

Sony Sugar name Wanyama interim coach This new mobile projector fits in the palm of one’s hand, and can project content up to 120 inches in size from a short distance of 3.5m. The MP-CD1, which weighs 280 grams, instantly transforms any surface into a wide screen, making it perfect for on-the-go business presentations, gaming, outdoor events or movie nights with the family. The projector’s vibrant display uses Texas Instruments DLP® IntelliBright™ technology, which employs advanced image processing algorithms to boost brightness without compromising on battery consumption. The projector’s unique design also allows it to maximise heat while still maintaining high brightness, in a pocket-sized form factor. With a rating of 105 ANSI lumens and 5,000mAh built-in battery, users can project clear and bright images for up to two hours of projection time. The projector’s auto keystone correction ensures a full-screen display without distortion even when projected from an angle or onto an uneven surface, while dynamic picture mode enhances images and videos to optimal brightness and saturation. A standard tripod socket is also located on the underside of the device to facilitate projection on any surface – even on the ceiling. With a speedy five second boot up time and easy HDMI connection, which accepts a wide variety of devices such as media-streaming dongles, smartphones, laptops and gaming consoles, the MP-CD1 ensures smooth presentations without delays. An optional HDMI dongle enables wireless connectivity with a variety of devices or for watching streaming content, thanks to simultaneous powering from a USB port to the dongle even during projection. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Charging the projector is simple, as it connects to a standard USB-C port, with no proprietary AC adaptor to carry or forget. Rated at 5V 3A, it can be charged quickly anywhere with an AC outlet or power bank. Featuring a sleek aluminium body, simply slip the MP-CD1 into your briefcase or backpack and be prepared for any outdoor event, business pitch or weekend party.