What began as a simple yellow fever vaccination four months ago has turned Javan Masimba's life upside down. Masimba and his wife, Helfa Simatwa, were excited at the chance to go for a church mission in Tanzania. It was, after all, part of fulfilling their call to spread the gospel and what better way to do it than as a couple. Masimba is the bishop and founder of Full Life Prophetic Ministries in Mundika vilage, Matayos constituency. Accompanying the couple on their trip to Mogoto village in Sirare district, Tanzania, were Bishop Hezekiah Atulo of World Outreach Christian ministries and a couple from Australia. Their trip Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The group left for the Isebania border on December 8, 2017, but on arrival at the border point, Masimba and his wife were asked to get a yellow fever vaccination. Yellow fever is a viral disease spread by mosquitoes and immunisation reduces one's risk of infection. After the vaccination, they embarked on their journey, oblivious of what would befall them later. About half-an-hour after getting the vaccination, the couple started feeling some irritation at the spot where they had been injected on the upper part of the arm. They thought it was temporary discomfort that would disappear, but the pain persisted. Despite their discomfort, the couple completed the mission in Tanzania and returned home. By the time Masimba and his wife arrived at their village on the night of December 10, they were in great pain and required urgent medical attention. The following morning they went to Tanaka hospital in Busia. “We were asked to pay Sh20,000 for treatment but we could not raise the money immediately,” said Masimba. His hand was swollen and the pain was excruciating. The couple would then visit Busia County Referral Hospital, where they were treated but the pain persisted. Masimba was admitted to the St Mary’s Mumias Mission Hospital between December 18 last year and Janury 1, 2018 Secondary diabetes A medical report prepared by Dr Juma Hayombe said Masimba had "sustained severe pyomyocellutis and secondary diabetes following an injection with yellow fever vaccine at Isebania Immigration Clinic''. He paid Sh101,000 for the treatment. His wife was admitted to the same hospital on December 18 and discharged six days later with an abscess on the upper part of the arm. After Masimba was discharged he contacted the office where he got the jab in Isebania to tell them of his woes. The officer who had injected the couple travelled to Mundika in January to meet Masimba and his wife. Felt sorry “He felt sorry and apologised,” said Masimba. When The Standard contacted the man, he declined to comment or answer text messages. “He gave me some cash to offset the bill and promised to check on us until we get well. However, he has not been picking my calls,” said Masimba. He asked officials from the Health ministry to investigate the matter. An official at the border claimed that Masimba could have failed to disclose that he was diabetic.