Two MPs have called for an end to a dispute between the county assembly and the executive over the appointment of officials. Elisha Odhiambo (Gem) and Chris Karan (Ugenya) as well as Woman Representative Christine Ombaka urged Governor Cornel Rasanga to talk with MCAs. Siaya has yet to appoint all its members of the executive committee to help spearhead development projects. The county assembly rejected four of Mr Rasanga's 10 nominees, citing integrity issues and saying they were not the right people for the jobs. Matters were made worse when three people went to court to stop the assembly from any further vetting of the four until a suit they had filed against their nomination was heard and determined. The MPs, who were speaking in Siaya yesterday, called for a truce, saying the stand-off was crippling delivery of services to residents. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Mr Odhiambo said leaders from six sub-counties had given Rasanga at least two names of individuals they wanted in cabinet. The Gem MP threatened to mobilise residents to storm the assembly until they were given a satisfactory explanation on the delay to give the electorate a full cabinet. Premature campaigns Mr Karan warned against premature campaigns for 2022, saying this would distract elected leaders from their development agenda. “Whether you were elected or not is no longer a bone of contention. Right now we are looking at 2022. Let us unite and work together. It is time we stopped these little squabbles and focused for the benefit of the people. I am confident we will all deliver on our manifestos,” he said. Ms Ombaka appealed to the MCAs to give the governor an executive to work with to deliver services to the people. The woman representative described the executive nominees as 'educated and experienced'. She chided the MCAs for frustrating Rasanga. “Let us work together as a team. We fought for these seats as a team and we made promises to the people. It is time to give back without mincing our words. Why are we frustrating our own who are educated? The journey to get these seats would not have been possible without the electorate who voted for us,” she said.