Deputy President William Ruto yesterday asked Jubilee Party MPs to focus on the development agenda so the party could achieve the pledges it made during election campaigns last year. Speaking in Kirinyaga County yesterday, Mr Ruto said the party did not condone hooliganism and political bickering as these were detrimental to national development. ALSO READ:

DP Ruto’s new strategy in Kisii, Nyamira ahead of 2022 Without making any specific references, the DP said the Jubilee administration was still reeling from the wounds of a tumultuous election, and expected all its foot soldiers to focus on development. Last Friday, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru was shouted down by alleged hired goons during an event attended by the DP in Kirinyaga Central constituency. “As Jubilee leaders we should at no time waste our time on empty rhetoric when wananchi have very high expectations of service delivery from us,” he said. Ruto, who was accompanied by legislators from Mt Kenya region, asked residents to be patient as the Government implemented various development projects. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He said among the projects the Government would undertake in Kirinyaga were Thiba Mega Dam and the proposed Kirinyaga Water and Sewerage and Water system, to be built this year at a cost of Sh1 billion with assistance from African Development Bank. Ruto said the project would primarily address the water problems Mwea rice farmers have faced since the establishment of Mwea Irrigation Scheme in 1956. The scheme depends on canal water, which is unsuitable for human consumption. The DP said the sewerage system would cover Kagumo, Kerugoya, Kutus and Ngurubani towns whose residents and businesses depended on septic tanks. “With the provision of the sewerage system and clean water, our government intends to make Ngurubani town a 24-hour economy, given the vibrancy brought about by rice production,” he said. ALSO READ:

Ruto reprimands Kirinyaga leaders for infightings Ruto also promised that the road connecting the town and Kagio market would be tarmacked.