Corruption remains the biggest canker eating away at the fabric of the Kenyan society today, yet despite all the resources at its disposal, the Government has done little, if anything, to rein in the vice other than playing to the public gallery and paying lip service. In 2016, during the state of the nation address, President Uhuru Kenyatta wondered aloud what Kenyans expected him to do about corruption.
 Coming from the Head of State, that caused despondency and backlash from some quarters, but demands on the Government to act has continued to grow. In his speech during the 2017 International Anti-Corruption Day observed on December 9, President Uhuru assured Kenyans that: “On my part, I once again assure you that in this fight, I shall be daring, different and indefatigable.” There are indications he is already doing this. 
 ALSO READ:

Ruto dismisses talk he is unhappy with Uhuru

 While announcing his Cabinet and the reshuffles he had made in Government, two key institutions jointly charged with others in the fight against corruption were affected. The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Keriako Tobiko tendered his resignation, perhaps having been promised a Cabinet position, while the Director of Criminal Investigations Ndegwa Muhoro is to be redeployed elsewhere. The offices of the DPP and the DCI have come under scrutiny for their lacklustre performance in the fight against corruption.
 The performance of the DPP's office has been dismal. Most of the time, the DPP's office and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) engaged in spats, laying blame at each other’s doorstep for the slow progress in prosecuting cases of corruption even where evidence was over whelming. EACC is on record calling for an amendment to legislation to give it more prosecutorial powers, perhaps as a means of expressing displeasure with the workings at the DPPs office.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Other than the arraignment of a few individuals in court, nothing further has been done to manifest seriousness in ending corruption. EACC claims it has so far charged 1,180 individuals with corruption, but the absence of convictions where crimes have explicitly been committed is not reassuring to the public.  
 Extending the broom that swept the DCI and DPP offices to EACC might be a good thing. With new blood, new ideas and new approaches, the war on corruption could be renewed to achieve tangible results. Equally important, an engagement between these institutions, the Government and the judiciary could deliver what Kenyans have been waiting for.
