NAIROBI, KENYA: When Attorney General Githu Muigai warned former Prime Minister Raila Odinga of grave consequences in the event he was sworn in as “the People’s President” he was heavily criticised by many.
 Some viewed Prof Muigai’s warning to be legally groundless, while others sought to provide justification for Odinga’s swearing-in, locating it within the realm of freedom of expression, which they argued was exercisable by whatever means so long as the act itself was not unlawful. 
 ALSO READ:

What 2017’s polls taught us about business survival

 To his credit, the Attorney General was quite unequivocal that any swearing-in of a person to the office of president of Kenya was to be founded upon, first, a declaration and certification by the IEBC that such a person met the required constitutional thresholds in a presidential election (and if necessary, the affirmation of such results by the Supreme Court) and, following which; the swearing-in of the declared victor is to be conducted by the Chief Justice.
 If these two conditions are absent, any swearing-in would not constitute a presidential swearing-in and therefore not capable of giving rise to any legal entitlement in favour of Odinga. In making this rather plain assertion, the Attorney General was in my opinion relying on a well-known maxim of international law, ex injuria jus non oritur that, no legal right can derive from an illegal act. The illegal acts in my view would be the flagrant usurpation of the constitutional role of the IEBC to conduct and declare the result of a presidential election as well as the role of the Chief Justice as the office upon which the solemn role of swearing in of the head of state and government of the republic inheres.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Admonition
 While the Constitution recognises the primacy of freedom of expression, this right cannot be used as a cloak for illegality. Consequently, aware that illegal acts that are permitted to fester over time can acquire legal force through a gradual process of waiver, prescription and acquiescence, it was therefore quite appropriate that the Attorney General dissuaded Hon. Odinga from the swearing in charade.
 By way of analogy from other legal situations, it is possible that illegal acts if permitted can acquire legal force. In property law for instance, trespass upon private property is an illegality that is sanctioned by way of penal consequences or damages. However, if such trespass is allowed to persist for a duration of time-in our law, 12 years- without challenge, such trespass acquires legal legitimacy and confers upon the trespasser a title that is better in law than that of the beneficial owner. This is the well-known law of adverse possession.
 Moreover, military coups (including peaceful ones) are frowned upon by international law as proper means by which change of government is to be realised. However, if permitted to take effect and government founded on this illegality is installed, over time, and based on recognition by citizens of that state and the tacit acknowledgement of international community, legitimacy gradually flows to sanctify a regime founded on this illegal power grab.
 Illegalities
 Further, whereas governmental functions are generally not capable of being restrained by estoppel, if Odinga’s swearing-in was allowed without hindrance, it is possible that some of his zealous supporters could rely on such swearing-in to pursue conduct that is incompatible with the law and seek the defence of estoppel when confronted by law enforcement agencies. To foreclose the emergence of ex factis jus oritur (legal consequences arising from facts on the ground) situations, it remains imperative that firm action be taken against any swearing-in outside of the law. For after all, as posited by Prof John Austin, Law is that command that is backed by coercive force. 
 ALSO READ:

New rift grows in NASA on Raila oath

 Moreover, governance policy that seeks social order and clarity supports the prevention of the celebration of an unlawful act, by seeking to ensure that a fait accompli founded upon serious illegalities does not consolidate and crystalise over time into situations potentially supportable by the national or international legal order. The function of non-recognition of an illegality therefore, is to vindicate the legal character of lawful conduct as against the “law creating effect of facts”. Thus, the Attorney General’s opinion is well founded in law and policy.
 Though Odinga’s swearing-in efforts can be viewed as an attempt to force dialogue on his much-vaunted electoral justice campaign, perhaps it is better to be reminded that rage needs always to be tempered with acuity and militancy, while indispensable, needs constitutional methodology to remain viable.
 Dr Sing’Oei is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya and a Legal Adviser, Executive office of the Deputy President.
 When Attorney General warned Raila of consequences in the event he was sworn in as “the People’s President” he was criticised
