Services at St Mary’s Mission Hospital in Gilgil came to a standstill for hours yesterday as nuns from the Assumption Sisters of Nairobi took over the facility. Accompanied by police officers and auctioneers, the nuns stormed the hospital early in the morning to execute a court order issued by a Nakuru Environment and Lands Court on November 23. ALSO READ:

Businessman wants to reclaim disputed land The orders allowed nuns forceful entry into the hospital to execute a judgment issued in September last year in their favour. The judgement had marked the end of a seven-year court battle between the nuns and American priest Father William Charles Fryda over ownership of the hospitals in Lang’ata and Elementaita. “The exercise went on well, staff here cooperated and were friendly to us, there was no disturbance and or violence and a new management is in place,” Nakuru County Police Commandant Hassan Barua said. Audi Maurice, St Mary’s Mission Hospital Lang’ata manager said they have no problem with the workers and will not sack any staff. Maurice said just like any other Catholic institution, changes are expected. He however hoped problems will not arise. “We have not encountered any kind of violence or resistance. We want to assure the employees that no one will lose their job. We are not here to sack anyone,” said Maurice. He announced that Joachim Githinji will be the new manager of the hospital and will be taking instructions from the nuns. Missing machines ALSO READ:

Hospital tussle affecting service delivery It however emerged that some workers allied to the previous management led by Fryda were not willing to work under the new management. “We will work with the few who are ready to cooperate, assimilate them into our system as is obvious we don’t expect full cooperation,” he said. Though services had resumed, very few patients could be attended to. A tour of the facility by Saturday Standard revealed that few medical tests could be conducted as critical machines were missing. Rooms where dental machines and chairs were previously installed were vacant. Githinji  said they were yet to establish where the machines are. Common drugs were also missing in the hospital pharmacy. In the tailoring room, sewing machines could be traced. Threads and  rolls of fabric could however be seen scattered all over. ALSO READ:

Poor students kicked out as priest, nuns battle rages on The new management blamed the staff who worked at the hospital previously because no outsiders could gain access and cart the machines away. Stock taking was going on. A staff member who worked under the old regime and who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of victimisation said claims that the new management will not sack them was baseless. “These people are lying. They have brought with them new staff and have replaced us, we have no place here,” he said. The staff said already the nuns had brought in 20 nurses and five laboratory technicians. He said cooks and other kitchen staff were already replaced. Those interviewed by Saturday Standard expressed their disappointments and called on the Government to intervene. They feared that the take over will lead to an increase in the cost of services. “This hospital has saved many lives. People come from as far as Kajiado to seek medical services here since its affordable. “We fear that the new management will turn this into a profit-making venture instead of helping he poor,” said Gideon Olekudu from Samburu. Olekudu had his father operated on at the facility a week ago and was back for a checkup. “This has always been a hospital for the poor and it has served us well. It has always been affordable. We are not sure if this will be the case with the new regime,” said Joel Nyadieka. ALSO READ:

Vehicle razed as 'suspected spies' visit St. Mary's Gilgil