Nyamira County government is registering women at its hospitals in an initiative through which pregnant women will receive free maternal and child care services. The programme, which is an extension of the National Government’s Linda Mama maternity drive, will provide ante-natal care, caesarean section births, post-natal care and skilled health personnel during delivery for all mothers in the county. ALSO READ:

Work at disputed dam goes on amid protests “We are requesting pregnant women to register in any of the health facilities in Nyamira County through which they will enjoy the free maternal healthcare,” Governor John Nyagarama said during the launch of the programme on Wednesday at the Nyamira County Referral Hospital. According to data from the County’s Department of Health Services, skilled deliveries have increased to 74.9 per cent up from 52 per cent in 2013 with fully immunized child coverage increasing to 87.9% up from 81% in 2013. Governor John Nyagarama also pledged to ensure that at least 50 per cent of the residents in the County are covered by NHIF. “Our Department of Health Services has formed a joint committee with NHIF to work towards increasing enrolment into the NHIF schemes in Nyamira from the current 15 per cent to over 50 per cent,” The Governor said. During the launch, the Governor noted that the county has made progress in healthcare delivery since 2013. “Data obtained from the Kenya Demographic Health Survey, indicates that Nyamira County beats all the other counties in Nyanza region in key health indicators.  We have the lowest fertility rate for women aged 15 to 49 years and we hold the record for the highest percentage of currently married women using a modern method of contraception,” Mr Nyagarama said. He also noted that more women deliver live births in health facilities in Nyamira County than anywhere in Nyanza and that the county has the highest per cent of children aged 12- 23 months who have received all basic vaccinations plus the pneumococcal vaccine. ALSO READ:

Fired county officers to know fate on Monday