The Government was on Sunday considering options as it attempts to scuttle tomorrow’s planned swearing-in of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka at Uhuru Park, Nairobi. It is understood that one option that has come up during police discussions is temporarily detaining National Super Alliance (NASA) leaders in their houses or wherever they will be to ensure that they do not go to Uhuru Park. ALSO READ:

DP Ruto slams NASA ahead of Raila oath Security chiefs met on Saturday, and have been doing so in the recent past, to analyse the different scenarios likely to confront them tomorrow. The option of arresting Opposition leaders and detaining them at undisclosed locations was also floated but the meeting did not agree on the law to be applied to deal with those arrested, sources said. “If we are pushed, you will see arrests all over from ordinary men to even the leaders. We know some of the leaders may even not spend the night in their homes,” said an officer aware of the plans. Security officers could also barricade Uhuru Park. At a press briefing in his office yesterday, Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome said his office had not received any notification from the event organisers. He said the police would not allow anyone in Uhuru Park. “Tell whoever is thinking of coming to Uhuru Park not to attempt it. We will not allow it,” said Mr Koome. Additional police The Standard has learnt that as part of efforts to stop the event, there will be additional police from neighbouring counties. “We will disrupt any form of gathering in the city,” said an insider of the security arrangements planned for tomorrow. ALSO READ:

Nairobi police boss warns NASA ahead of Raila swearing-in Other officials said police squads were gearing up for arrests in different parts of the city today. NASA has urged supporters to turn out in large numbers for the ceremony despite the county government insisting Uhuru Park had been closed for renovations. During a rally in Homa Bay County on Saturday, Raila told his supporters that he was ready to die or be jailed for life. “If it will cost me my life or send me to jail for life, I am ready for it. My life is no better than that of baby Pendo or the more than 300 people who have died since the August 8 elections,” said Raila, who was accompanied by his co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi. The Government’s tough stance against the planned swearing-in was the topic of discussion when President Uhuru Kenyatta met foreign envoys at State House on Friday. Sources said the President was categorical that the event would not take place. Uhuru is said to have told the diplomats the planned event amounted to “a coup”. “We did not understand what he meant by a coup but it was clear there may be violence if NASA goes on with their plans,” said one official who asked not to be named. ALSO READ:

Raila swearing in: How we got here The message was the same from the city police boss. “I will be accused of omission if I fail to stop the meeting. I will therefore ensure that there is no breach of peace,” said Koome. He added that the police served the Government of the day and their loyalty was not in question. "Those planning the meeting want to intimidate city residents," he said. “We'll protect Nairobi jealously. Nobody will be at Uhuru Park."