U.S. President Donald Trump has said that he would “absolutely” be willing to talk on phone to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and that he hopes a positive development results from talks between North Korea and South Korea.
 North Korea agreed on Friday to hold official talks with South Korea this week, the first in more than two years, hours after Washington and Seoul delayed a military exercise amid a standoff over Pyongyang’s nuclear and missile programs. 
 ALSO READ:

Trump welcomes talks between North Korea, South Korea

 Trump, answering questions from reporters at the presidential retreat at Camp David, Maryland, expressed a willingness to talk to Kim but not without preconditions.
 “Absolutely, I would do that,” Trump said. “I have no problem with that at all.”




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Trump and Kim have exchanged insults ever since Trump took office, with Trump repeatedly calling Kim “rocket man” for testing nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.
 Earlier last week Trump, dismissed Kim’s taunt that the North Korean leader has a nuclear button on his desk, saying he has a bigger button.
 The talks between North Korea and South Korea are expected to cover the Winter Olympics, to be held in South Korea next month, and inter-Korean relations.
 Trump suggested the talks might lead to an easing of tensions and took credit for the diplomatic breakthrough, saying it was a result of his steady pressure.
 “Look, right now they are talking Olympics. It’s a start, it’s a big start. If I weren’t involved they wouldn’t be talking at all right now,” he said.
  “If something can come out of those talks, that would be a great thing for all of humanity, that would be a great thing for the world,” he said. 
 ALSO READ:

North Korea reopens border hotline as Trump boasts of 'bigger' nuclear button

 On Sunday, North Korea announced a list of five officials who will represent Pyongyang, a day after South Korea confirmed its representatives, the South’s unification ministry said.
 The North’s delegation will be led by Ri Son Gwon, who is head of the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland that is usually tasked with dealing with South Korean affairs.
