Uganda’s intelligence actions towards Rwanda are increasingly not grounded on facts but rather fabricated lies from fugitives of Rwanda National Congress (RNC) operating in Kampala, observers say. Recently, Uganda seems to have turned into a safe haven and command centre for RNC renegades keen to benefit from rift between Kigali and Kampala by giving them ground for rebel recruitment on the Ugandan soil. ALSO READ:

Hope as DRC refugees flood the country Indeed reports have already confirmed direct support from Uganda’s top security organs, specifically the Chieftaincy for Military Intelligence (CMI) to RNC in designing anti-Rwanda propaganda and shaping intelligence narrative to create undue tensions between the two countries. Now RNC propaganda seems to be influencing Uganda’s decisions on free movement of people especially by arresting innocent Rwandans and planting anti-Rwandan stories in the media, according to information from Uganda’s security circles. “It is increasingly becoming pathetic that we, here in Uganda have tolerated this nonsense to continue because it risks to influence both our diplomatic and security ties with Rwanda,” a top security official told the Standard newspaper from Kampala “These RNC operatives have gotten into the ears of some intelligence fellows here with whom they share old historical ties. Since some of them have historical grudges to settle, they are abusing the powers of their offices to serve individual interests,” the seemingly irritated official told this website. Media reports have pointed out the inner-dealings between CMI and RNC focal points in Kampala led by Rugema Kayumba. Rugema runs anti-Rwanda propaganda freely on different social media platforms attacking the leadership of Kigali without any caution from his hosts in Kampala. Sensing that the malicious allegations of Rwanda ‘kidnapping’ refugees are not working in their favour, RNC and its sponsors (CMI) have now turned to planting fake stories that Kigali is sponsoring assassins to target the top leadership in Uganda. “These fellows are taking the joke to another level,” the security source said. “They have actually hijacked CMI and running the show with what pleases them.” The terror group, RNC has been mobilizing recruits in different refugee camps accommodating Rwandans inside Uganda. ALSO READ:

Uganda maize traders protest against Kenyan importers In December last year, a group of 45 Rwandan refugees were arrested from Uganda’s Kikagati border post with fake travel documents as they headed for rebel recruitment to Burundi and onwards to Eastern DRC. They are now detained in Uganda. However, one of key mobiliser of this group from Mbarara District, one Dr. Sam Ruvuma was arrested but later released after intervention from higher authorities in Uganda. Sources say the release of Ruvuma has created animosity among the detained group who see it as betrayal since Ruvuma was the fellow that mobilized them into the illegal activities. “It is quite revealing that Dr. Ruvuma who was a mastermind of RNC recruitment in Uganda was set free,” a source quoted one of the detained fellows saying. “He is the fellow who led us into this mess and should be here with us.” At the time of Ruvuma’s arrest, information obtained by an investigative website showed he was working with some of the detained recruits especially Moses Bijura of Rubare, Ntugamo and Godfrey Musoni from Mukono. Both are now questioning why Ruvuma is free. Dr. Ruvuma is part of the ring mobilizing for RNC in western Uganda working hand-in-hand with Pastor Deo Nyirigira of Agape Pentecostal church based in Mbarara. The court case for these detained 45 is yet to kick off.  This week, Uganda’s media reported that the case had been postponed due to lack of financial resources. ALSO READ:

Uganda name Frenchman Desabre as new coach However, what is strange is that the case file only mentions of terrorism charges and leaves out RNC rebel recruitment with intention of destabilizing a neighbor.?