NAIROBI, KENYA; Mandera County leadership has distanced itself from alleged association with the NASA Peoples Assembly bill after it emerged that the AG office inadvertently listed Mandera as one of the Counties that has passed the controversial bill. Addressing the press at a Nairobi Hotel, the leaders led by the Economic Freedom Party Chairman Isaack Abey and the Speaker Mohammed Aden Khalif demanded a public apology from the A.G and further remove Mandera County from the list of respondents in suit the A.G has filed against counties that have passed that bill. ALSO READ:

AG Muigai takes NASA to court “We are not party to the NASA driven Peoples Assembly and we are the second largest party supporting the President and Jubilee Party,” said the Speaker. The leaders expressed shock that an office that advises government and the President could be a party of a scheme to malign the County and the EFP at a crucial time when the President was considering his new cabinet. “We are supporting Jubilee and we supported the election of President Uhuru and DP William Ruto and now were are waiting with bated breath hoping to be appointed in cabinet and in the PS positions and there are people keen to spoil this,” said the Mandera West MP Aden Yussuf Also at the press conference were the 40 MCAs from Mandera County currently at a leadership workshop in Nairobi. The leaders said that whilst there may be differences at the local level between EFP and Jubilee for the benefit of its people, EFP support for the President and Jubilee party at the national level is unequivocal and unshaken. “It is our hope that we will cement this partnership in the days to come especially we hope that His Excellency The President will see in his wisdom to include able members of EFP in the executive appointments including the on-going Cabinet positions as well as positions of Principal Secretary considerations,” said the EFP Secretary General  Abdullhahi Abdinoor Gessey. They noted that there is no way Mandera County assembly could have associated, let alone pass the said motion on People’s Assembly as suggested by Council in a sworn affidavit before the court of Law. The leaders stressed that the inclusion by  Charles Mutinda the Deputy Chief Council at Attorney General Office of Mandera County as one of those Counties that has passed the so called Peoples assembly bill into law is false, preposterous, farfetched and a flagrant misrepresentation of the political position of EFP and Mandera people in general. ALSO READ:

Four children killed by explosive device in Mandera “We demand an unreserved public apology from Mr Charles Mutinda and the withdrawal of Mandera County from the list of countries alleged to have passed the bill with immediate effect,” read the Secretary General adding that failure to do this, EFP will take legal action at its disposal as provided by the Law against Mr Charles Mutinda and the AG’s office as an institution.