A school in Nyakach sub-county has been closed indefinitely after a fire gutted a dormitory. The latest fire at Sigoti Girls comes barely four months after two dormitories at the secondary school were burnt in a span of three days. ALSO READ:

Headache for Governor Nyong'o over stalled multi-million projects The dormitory housed about 50 students. The fire started on Saturday night when the students were in class for their evening studies. A number of students told The Standard that they heard screams and saw smoke billowing from the dormitory. “We saw flames at the entrance of the dormitory and when we came out of class, we saw mattresses in flames,” said a Form Three student. Villagers rushed to the school and helped to put out the fire. There were no injuries, but students lost their personal effects. Principal Rose Ndiga said the fire had affected the students, but added that they had been counselled. Education officials and parents said they suspect it was an arson attack. ALSO READ:

Kisumu County responds to critics over Sh99 million road tender The county director of education, Sabina Arodi, who termed the incident as regrettable, said the administration had sought the help of other agencies, including security officers, to help identify the cause of the fire. She said it could have been an arson attack, just like the two fires last year. “We are requesting anybody with an issue with the school to approach us so that we can resolve any conflict amicably instead of putting innocent children through this,” said Arodi. The director added that the ministry would do everything possible to ensure that learning at the institution was not disrupted for long. Parents called for speedy investigations into the matter. Regional Police Commander Leonard Katana said investigations had started. He noted that last year, two people were charged with arson. However, he said the cause of Saturday's fire had yet to be established. ALSO READ:

Catholic Bishop renews fight on contraceptives