Silas Irungu, or ‘Boza’ as he’s commonly referred to, is busy running up and down University Way holding knives, power banks, car chargers and even FM Simulators. It is barely 8am but his body is drenched in sweat from the constant back and forth as he looks for customers in traffic. He keeps staring at the traffic lights, hoping and praying that they could take another five or more minutes before they turn green and the vehicles start moving again.  Luckily, he gets a customer who buys one of his chargers for Sh1,500 but before he is handed his money, the lights turn green and the motorist speeds off. ALSO READ:

Pedestrian shot as police fight off Nairobi muggers Efforts to shout at the driver of the black Subaru Outback to stop fall on deaf ears and an explanation to the traffic police officer in charge is also fruitless. It is a scenario that Boza has lived through many times as he goes about his business. Good money “This business requires that you are up early and on the road by 6:30am, when traffic starts to build up. On any given morning you can make good money, but you must also be prepared for customers who run off with your money at the command of the traffic lights,” says Boza. He is not the only one who chooses to capitalise on the city’s incessant traffic. Roads such as Kiambu, University Way, Haile Selassie Avenue, Mombasa, Upper Hill and Thika have been turned into a customers’ paradise for the hawkers and a mobile shopping mall - given the vast number of items available - for motorists. According to City Hall, traffic jams cost the city approximately Sh50 million daily. Needless to say, traffic hawkers are eager to get a piece of that pie. Moreover, there are approximately 30,000 vehicles coming in and out of the city daily, translating to more customers for the hawkers. The traders, who are more often than not young men and women donning baseball caps to shield their faces from the morning sun, are usually armed with paintings, fruits, car seat covers, torches, sunglasses and even sweets - all preying on motorists. Wooden carvings Other items sold in traffic include steering wheel covers, wallets, car jacks, tail lights as well as wooden carvings and inflatable balls and other toys. ALSO READ:

Traders, council askaris clash in bid for survival “Apart from the paintings and fruits, most of the car accessories and items sold usually come from wholesalers in Nyamakima and we sell them on commission. The morning and daytime traffic are a good starting point,” says Mureithi, another trader who operates on Mombasa Road. Mureithi singles out the Nairobi South Cemetery adjacent to the Bunyala Road roundabout as the perfect hideout whenever there’s a confrontation with the city authorities. Motorists also confessed to have given in to the pressure from hawkers and randomly bought items such as reflectors and clubs.