Kanu chairman Gideon Moi has dismissed claims that he has played a role in the formation of the Jubilee Cabinet.
 The Baringo Senator also said he was not interested in taking up a position as a Cabinet secretary in the President Uhuru Kenyatta-led administration, as alleged by a section of the media. 
 ALSO READ:

Uhuru, Ruto rubbish talk of split

 Gideon, who spoke to journalists on Tuesday after being elected the Senate ICT Committee chairman, explained that he was comfortable with being a senator and he would continue discharging his mandate in the same post for the next five years.
 “I have not been offered a post of a CS. And even if I was given, I would not take it. I have a role to serve my people who elected me to office. I want to do so with commitment and all my energy,”  he clarified.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Playing my part
  A section of the media over the weekend speculated that the Senator was set to quit his post and take up a CS position in the Jubilee administration.
 According to the reports, it was claimed that the Kanu chief was lobbying for Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat, former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and Kiprono Kittony, the chairman of the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry to join the Cabinet.
 “I have played no role whatsoever in the formation of the Cabinet. I have not proposed any names to the Cabinet. I was elected the Baringo Senator and I am playing my part. Other people were elected to do those tasks,” he said.
 Last Friday President Kenyatta announced the retention of only six Cabinet Secretaries out of the 19 he worked with during his first term in office. He appointed three new individuals to his Cabinet.
 Those who were retained in the Cabinet include Fred Matiang’i (Education), Charles Keter (Energy), Najib Balala (Tourism), Henry Rotich (Treasury), Joe Mucheru (ICT) and James Macharia (Transport). 
 ALSO READ:

Jubilee MPs from Western threatening to join NASA

 Uhuru is expected to name the rest of his nominees to the Cabinet this week.
