The National Youth Council (NYC) has called on government and other employers to stop asking for expensive requirements that cost nearly Sh 5000 for fresh job seekers. "The government should give a directive of exempting the youth from the financially extensive requirements in job application namely the cost incurred in acquiring Certificate of Good Conduct, HELB and the Credit Reference Bureau," read the NYC Chair Fatuma Abubakar. ALSO READ:

SportPesa cancels all local sports sponsorship At the same time the Council through a press conference has thanked the President for creating a new ministry that will directly deal with youth matters. Yet they went ahead to request to form a specific department of youth since the youth was a unique cohort with unique needs. "We require the President to consider the inclusion of the youth in the remaining appointments more so in the Boards and agencies of government as reflected in his manifesto for the youth,' said Ms Fatuma. The board hailed the President for nominating Prof. Margaret Kobia as Cabinet Secretary, Lilian Mbogo as Principal Secretary and Rachael Shebesh as Chief administrative Secretary in the newly established Ministry of The press conference was at the end of a full board meeting attended by other members including the NYC CEO Raymond Ochieng. They board asked the government to give the audit report on the 30 per cent opportunities for the youth and introduce a redress mechanism to ministries, departments and agencies that have deliberately not complied with the directive. The board also expressed fear that youth empowerment may be lost as the top of the agenda in the planned mergers of the various funds including that for youth, women and Uwezo. "We request the President in his wisdom to keep his promise to empowerment of the youth by ensuring that in the merger of the Youth affirmative funds including YEDF, WEDF and Uwezo," it said. ALSO READ:

Mall owner upbeat as new supermarket opens The board encouraged the youth to take advantage and help to collaboratively engage the Government on the four priority areas of affordable housing, universal health care, food security and manufacturing. In conclusion the NYC urged the youth to be responsible and shun engagement of political formations in engaging on matters against the law and that which does not add value to their well-being.