National Super Alliance (Nasa) leader Raila Odinga has revealed plans by the Opposition in the New Year.
 Addressing Kenyans on New Year’s Eve, Mr Raila divulged that Nasa will this week launch fresh peaceful protests against the Jubilee Government. 
 ALSO READ:

President Uhuru reveals his plan for 2018

 “Within the first week of the New Year, we will unveil a programme for civil disobedience, peaceful protests, non-cooperation with and resistance to an illegitimate regime in addition to People’s Assemblies,” said Raila.
 The Opposition chief said that Nasa’s priority will be to fight for electoral justice to ensure that the voter’s voice is heard.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “After three stolen elections in a row and the standoff that has ensued, ending the culture of sham elections with pre-determined outcomes must be the nation’s priority. We must nip the new trend where people continue to vote, opposition is allowed to exist and win a few seats in parliament, but the vote does not really count,” said Raila.
 He indicated electoral justice will go hand in hand with strengthening of the Judiciary and reforming the security sector.
 The former Prime Minister also hit out at the Government saying that police brutality will not be accepted and must end.
 “So far, the mindset is to steal the election, suppress and subdue protesters into submission by killing them then they will accept, forget and move on. This has been the case in all the three stolen elections,” Raila pointed out.
 He also warned that the only way President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Government can avoid Opposition’s fury is by agreeing to dialogue on electoral reforms.
 “NASA has two ways to realize these goals. We can sit down on the negotiating table with our Jubilee opponents and discuss how to fix our electoral system, reform the executive, protect the judiciary, reform the security sector and strengthen devolution. We are ready for such dialogue as long as these issues are on the table. Alternatively, we take the issues to the people and let them decide without the involvement of the State,” Raila declared. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila: 2018 is the year for electoral justice

 President Uhuru while delivering his New Year message at State House, Nairobi, hinted at naming a new Cabinet in the next few weeks when he names a team to deliver his Big Four Vision.
 “In the next few weeks, I will unveil the men and women to whom I will entrust delivery of the Big Four, and other programmes that will transform this country.  I will expect these men and women to serve Kenyans without partiality and with the very highest standard of integrity and efficiency,” Uhuru said on New Year’s Eve.
 The Head of State also asked leaders to unite and deliver on promises to help solve problems that Kenyans face.
 Popular lawyer Dr Miguna Miguna on Saturday has warned President Uhuru and his deputy William Ruto that they would be kicked out of power in the New Year.
 Dr Miguna, claimed that President Uhuru and his deputy ‘stole’ their way to power in the disputed elections.  
 The National Resistance Movement (Nrm) general (self-proclaimed) also called on Kenyans who did not vote in the October 26 repeat presidential election to “execute a revolutionary program” to oust the Jubilee leaders from their seats.
 “2018 must be the year when 75% of Kenyans who did not vote for the despotic duo @UKenyatta and @WilliamsRuto EXECUTE A REVOLUTIONARY PROGRAM and REMOVE the electoral thieves from illegitimate power and deliver liberation for Kenyans once and for all. Happy New Year, #uhurumustgo.” Miguna said in a Facebook post. 
 ALSO READ:

Miguna: Uhuru, Ruto must be removed from power in 2018

 Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Thursday (December 30, 2017) declared he would be sworn in with Raila if Uhuru would not hold dialogue with the Opposition.
 Kalonzo argued Raila’s swearing-in as the ‘people’s president’ and him as his deputy was pegged on legality and legitimacy of the August election in which he claimed they defeated Uhuru and Ruto.
 Kalonzo vowed that the Opposition would not be cowed by the Government and would conduct the swearing-in this year.
 He also said it was wrong for the President to equate their quest for dialogue to the 2022 presidential showdown.
 “Doesn't the President have a heart? My heart is bleeding. I and brother Raila will go ahead with the swearing-in ceremony as the people’s president and deputy if he doesn’t heed our calls for dialogue to rid this country of electoral injustice. We will not stop,” he vowed.
 Attorney General (AG) Githu Muigai on December 18, 2017 faulted NASA for its swearing-in plans.
 AG Muigai tore at some Opposition lawyers for misleading Kenyans on what he said were treasonable offences.
 According to Prof Muigai, the NASA-affiliated legal minds were trying to justify plans to swear-in Raila as the ‘People’s President’.
 “Section 40 declares what is high treason which is the overthrowing of the legitimate Government of the day. That is high treason. Article 42 explains in detail what high treason is," said the AG. 
 ALSO READ:

Opinion: Baba, please seek inclusivity, not secession

 Muigai also took a swipe at a Senator in the Opposition outfit for misleading Kenyans and NASA chiefs on the Raila inauguration.
 “Some politicians can never seem to keep their mouth shut on issues they have no idea about. Some Senator says there is nothing in Kenya like treason law, but colonial law.
 [Siaya Senator James Orengo is on record as making such comments].
 “This is a man sitting in the Senate…a lawyer who says I have practised law for 40 years and there is no law to protect the Constitution from illegitimate overthrow. I think he belongs to a different forum!” Muigai said.
 Muigai spoke during the launch of an action plan for 2017 to 2022 to ensure speedy and legal aid to all.
 The aim was to ensure all Kenyans including inmates access justice and their human rights are protected.
