 Two candidates in yesterday's Wiper Party nominations for Kitui West seat brought back memories of epic political battles that go back to the 70s. ALSO READ:

Search for late Francis Nyenze's successor picks pace The nominations pitted the late MP Francis Nyenze’s widow, Edith, against Maluki Kitili, the son of former Cabinet minister Nyiva Mwendwa. The nominations rekindled memories of the Nyiva-Nyenze political rivalry of yesteryear. The parliamentary seat has been dominated by the Mwendwa family since 1974 when Nyiva was first elected to Parliament on a Kanu party ticket. She served until 1979 when she was defeated by Parmeneus Nzilu Munyasya. Munyasya served for three years but lost in an election petition, paving way for Kitili Mwendwa to succeed him in a by-election in 1984. However, Kitili did not finish his five-year tenure after he died in a road accident along the Nairobi-Thika highway a year later. In a by-election that followed in 1986, Kitili’s brother, Kyale Mwendwa won. Kyale served until 1992 when he was dethroned by his sister-in-law, Nyiva. In the 1997 General Election, Nyenze beat Nyiva with overwhelming votes. But in the election that followed in 2002, Nyiva again trounced Nyenze only to lose the seat to a new comer, Charles Nyamai, in 2007. ALSO READ:

Kalonzo dilemma over ticket in mini-poll to replace Nyenze In 2013, Nyenze again won the seat, and proceeded to win again in last year's August 8 election, before his death on December 6, barely three months after being sworn in for another term. Husband's legacy Mrs Nyenze was keen to convince voters that she is not riding on her husband's legacy. During her campaign launch last Sunday, she told voters that she was her own person. “I'm ready for the challenge because I know the people will choose the best. If I was given direct nomination people would think I am a weak leader which is not the case,” she said. On the hand, while launching his campaigns on Saturday, Maluki was confident that he would defeat Mrs Nyenze in the nominations. His victory would herald the return of the Mwendwa family dynasty in Kitui politics. Five Ward Reps backed his candidature. Meanwhile, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission’s (IEBC) voters’ register went missing during yesterday's party nominations, casting doubts on the legality of the  exercise. ALSO READ:

Nyenze’s burial underway in Kitui County Exercise book Voters were required to produce their national identity cards and their names recorded manually in an exercise book before casting their vote. The nominations were also marred by low voter turn out and delays in distribution of voting materials across all the 65 polling stations. However, the returning officer Francis Kivindu, said the absence of the IEBC register would not affect the exercise.