Kilifi residents have protested a proposal to relocate a primary school in Ganze constituency to pave way for a quarry.
 Irate villagers of Mitsangani in Jaribuni ward have instead demanded the suspension of quarrying activities. 
 ALSO READ:

Menengai School on the spot over Form One admissions

 But Ganze Sub county Education officer Omar Borura yesterday insisted that the Mitsangoni Primary School will be relocated based on technical advice and ground report.
 He said the school cannot be registered because of the environmental hazard posed by the quarry.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “The school cannot be registered because there are so many environmental hazards like dust and noise pollution,” he said, adding that it was impossible to dig latrines for the institution because the area is rocky.
 Borura said teachers have refused to work in that school.
 “The school management should get a technical report from National Environmental Authority that details why the institution cannot be there,” he said.
 But parents and the school's Board of Management accused local leaders of politicising the schools’ management due to its poor state.
 The school’s BOM Chairman Willispan Chiwai said the infrastructure should be improved and quarry relocated to create a conducive learning environment.
 Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire said he was yet to get a report on relocation of the school. 
 ALSO READ:

Sh29b for free day learning released

 He said the school has been in existence for 20 years and quarry and mining companies operating in the area ought to have taken preventive measures.
 In an interview, Kilifi County Executive for Environment, Water and Natural Resources Kiringi Mwachitu said the school has not been registered because of land disputes.
 “The school must be relocated to Wamboi because it has land disputes and that is why it has not been registered and now we have people who have donated land for it,” Mwachitu said.
 The plan to relocate the school was first mooted by former Ganze MP Peter Shehe arguing that the quarry poses danger to pupils.
