Government delays in paying for maize delivered to the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) has prompted some farmers to sell their surplus to raise school fees. Some parents who rely on maize farming as their sole source of income yesterday said they have been forced to sell what they had reserved for domestic use to enable them shop and pay fees for their children as schools opened for first term. ALSO READ:

Scramble for unga ahead of price hike They sell to traders at low rates of between Sh2,200 and Sh2,300 per 90kg bag. The NCPB offers Sh3,200 per bag. The farmers said they supplied their produce to NCPB depots after the government pledged prompt payment but they have been disappointed by the delays. They said some of them delivered their produce to the depots as early as December 4, 2017 but are yet to be paid. “The government promised to pay us within 24 hours of delivery. I supplied 150 bags of maize on December 17 with the hope of receiving payment before schools open. To date, I have not been paid,” said Joel Momoen, a farmer in Kaptagat, Uasin Gishu County. Momoen said he has no option but to sell stocks he had stored for food so that his children can go to school. “The government is releasing the payments in bits, paying only for one or two-day supplies. They should clear our payments as promised,” he said. Jeremiah Kosgei, a maize trader, said they have bought stocks from desperate farmers. “We buy produce at Sh2,300 per 90kg bag, which we in turn sell to local millers at Sh2,450. Farmers have turned up in large numbers because they want ready cash and we assist them,” said Kosgei, who buy maize from farmers in Eldoret town. Wilson Tuwei, another maize farmer, said his plans of stocking surplus have been interrupted because he has been forced to sell more for immediate cash. ALSO READ:

Uganda maize traders protest against Kenyan importers “I have delivered 100 bags to the NCPB and I am still waiting for payment,” he said. An official at NCPB who did not want to be named, said the government had by yesterday released Sh395 million to be paid out to farmers. The source said the amount would pay for supplies of five to 10 days from December 4. 