Police in Naivasha are investigating the death of a night guard whose body was found locked in his house in Kayole estate along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway.
 The recovery ended a three day search for the 37 year old man said to be watchman in one of the residential buildings in Kayole village about five kilometers from the lake side town.
 The deceased was last seen on Friday in his usual workplace but efforts to trace him the following morning did not bear fruits.
 A local Paul Kimani said the man would be seen every day but he did not clear with a colleague as is normal raising suspicions.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “Neighbors decided to check his house and found it locked from the inside where they broke it only to find his lifeless body lying in bed,” he said on Monday.
 “Initially we thought he had travelled up country but when he failed to pick up calls in his phone we decided to inform the police and the body was collected,” he said.
 Kimani added that he was in good health and could not have possibly committed suicide saying the body had been picked up by police.
 A senior police officer who declined to be named confirmed the incident saying they had commenced investigations into the matter.
 “We will carry out a postmortem to see what exactly happened and we call on any person with information regarding this matter to volunteer it to us,” said the officer.
 Meanwhile close to five families were forced to sleep in the cold following a fire incident that gutted down a residential plot at KCC village in the town.
 The fire whose cause could not be immediately known was believed to have started in one of the houses before quickly spreading to others.
 A witness Mary Anyango said many people were sleeping when the fire broke out and were woken up by screams from the families affected.
 “Quick efforts from residents and fire fighters from the county government saved the situation as no one was injured but the affected families lost household goods of unknown value,” she said.
 A senior police officer who declined to be named confirmed the incident saying they were working with Kenya Red Cross and other well-wishers to help the affected families.
 “We believe the fire could have been caused by an electric fault but we are piecing together information as part of investigations,” said the officer.
