The fate of four rebel Jubilee MPs who defied the party on sharing of parliamentary committee positions, is now in the hands of members. This is after the National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai formally served the legislators with a petition from  Jubilee Party members, who have indicated that they do not have confidence in their leadership. ALSO READ:

Uhuru whips rebel Rift MPs The MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Tiren (Moiben), James Gakuya (Embakasi North) and  Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East), were served the notice of the intention to oust them by the clerk on Friday. On Thursday, President Kenyatta and his deputy hosted MPs who are members of the Environment and Natural Resources, Agriculture and Livestock, Labour and Parliamentary Broadcasting Committees and asked them to reject their leaders. Mr Keter was elected Labour Committee chairman, Mr Tiren, Agriculture and Livestock Committee, James Gakuya, Broadcasting Committee and Mr Kangogo Bowen was elected the vice chair of the Environment, Water and Mineral Resources committee, against their party’s wishes. According to a communique from the office of the Clerk to members of the four committees seen by Sunday Standard, the MPs who belong to the house team have been notified about a meeting next week, whose agenda will be to oust the rebels. The committee meetings will be held simultaneously on Tuesday, starting at 10am. Yesterday, Mr Sialai, confirmed that he has formally communicated to the affected Jubilee lawmakers on their decisions made by their colleagues, which he noted is pursuant to the House Standing Orders 193(1) and (2). “I have individually served the concerned chairs and Vice Chairpersons with the petitions from the members of the respective committees desiring to pass a vote of no confidence against the said MPs. The three day notice is ending Sunday (today),” he told Sunday Standard. But even as the MPs plot to kick out the four legislators from the helm of the committees, a High court order temporarily blocking Jubilee from removing the defiant lawmakers from teams leadership is still in place. ALSO READ:

Jubilee MPs from Western threaten to join NASA Justice John Mativo on December 27 last year issued stay orders for the four, meaning they were to continue heading the parliamentary committees until the case is heard and determined. Yesterday Keter, Tiren and Bowen vowed to stay put saying they still enjoy the support of the MPs who elected them. The accused cartels of pushing for their ouster and said they wont let them triumph. “Parliament is an independent institution and cannot be intimidated by anyone. Our matter is still pending in court and it was wrong in the first place for President Kenyatta to summon MPs to discuss our issue,” he added. The Nandi Hills MP claimed that corruption cartels are misleading the President. Cherang’any MP Joshua Kutuny also pronounced himself in the matter, calling upon leaders of the Jubilee Party to find an agreeable solution to the matter. He noted that the decision reached by the MPs at State House to de-whip their colleagues was null and void since the matter was in the High Court. “It was wrong to use MPs meeting at State House to fight their four colleagues, that was a storm in the cup, but as it is now, it can easily create a fall out in the party, top party leaders must refrain from highhandedness and the four legislators should also refrain from threatening the party,” said Mr Kutuny. ALSO READ:

Uhuru’s Cabinet not inclusive, says Jubilee MP