The necessity to build strong institutions, unlike the status quo where an individual outshines the institution he or she heads, is underscored by recent declarations by Interior and National Coordination Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). The term ‘knee-jerk reaction’ has been used to describe actions and decrees that are sentimental or simply impulsive. The purported ban on night travel by NTSA fits this description after a court sitting in Nakuru found there was no law to support such decree. In similar vein, Dr Matiang’i, the acting Cabinet secretary for Education, ordered that all school buses be painted yellow. Not one to be satisfied easily, he further ordered that motivational speakers invited to schools must seek clearance from county governments. This runs counter to freedom of association. ALSO READ:

President offers help for families of road crash victims It was in the context of accidents that Dr Matiang’i made the order to repaint all school buses yellow, yet one cannot see the connection between colour and accidents. Granted, if the rationale behind the order was to facilitate identification and help in enforcing the night travel ban on school buses, it is understandable, but this should have been done after extensive consultations because the cost factor and other issues arise. Some buses, as pointed out by the Kenya National Union of Teachers, are co-owned with financial institutions, which need to be brought on board, for they do not fall under the control of the Ministry of Education and may not be bound by its decisions. And because some of the declarations made recently are not supported by statutes, they fall under the ambit of roadside declarations so popular in the 1970s and 1980s, but which have no place in present-day Kenya. Times have changed, and with enhanced citizen enlightenment, what sufficed then, will not suffice today. Some individuals are likely to go to court to challenge what they believe has been forced on them. Dr Matiang’i should not allow himself to suffer such embarrassment. He has been an effective CS. Indeed some of the changes he has initiated at the ministry are quite admirable like the administration of exams and the roll-out of the new curriculum. But his pronouncements that are increasingly rubbing industry players the wrong way and which border on populism could easily undermine his legacy. Simply put: Dr Matiang’i needs to anchor his directives in law for continuity. If another CS is appointed, what guarantees that these notices and decrees will be followed through? Any good laws should outlive the good CS.