Jubilee has finally cracked the whip on four rebel MPs who defied the party on sharing of top parliamentary committee posts. This is after the party's legislators voted on Tuesday to kick out Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Tiren (Moiben), James Gakuya (Embakasi North) and Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East). ALSO READ:

Keep off our affairs, MPs tell Uhuru Last Thursday, President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto hosted MPs who are members of the Environment and Natural Resources, Agriculture and Livestock, Labour and Parliamentary Broadcasting committees and asked them to reject their leaders. Mr Keter was elected Labour Committee chairman, Tiren, Agriculture and Livestock Committee, Gakuya, Broadcasting Committee and Kangogo was elected the vice chair of the Environment, Water and Mineral Resources committee, against their party’s wishes. High drama It was, however, the ejection of Keter alongside his deputy Catherine Wambialianga (Bungoma County) that was accompanied by high drama, with the matter sharply dividing members of the Labour Committee. At one point the session’s temporary chairperson Fabian Muli (Kangundo) had to give the MPs a five- minute break, after tempers flared during the exercise as members engaged in a shouting match. The manner in which to vote was the bone of contention, as the Nandi Hills lawmaker backed by MPs from NASA insisting that it should be done through secret ballot, while other members were for the idea that it should be done publicly. Keter's hopes to have the vote conducted through secret ballot were, however, dashed when members voted by acclamation. It is believed that the MP had hoped to get the support of Opposition legislators to retain his position. ALSO READ:

Standard reporter threatened over story Although NASA, on the eve of the election, directed its members not to attend the sitting, some Opposition MPs did. “The election of committee chairpersons and their vice is done by secret ballot, why should a vote of no confidence against the same office bearers be done through a different process? We should follow the Constitution,” said Keter. Jubilee MP’s emphasis for the voting to be done publicly is said to have been informed by reports that some members of the ruling party were sympathetic to the beleaguered committee chair and could have voted for him if the process was done secretly. As an indicator that the party led by President Kenyatta was not leaving anything to chance, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale was present at the committee room as the election was carried out. After realising that they had been out-muscled, opposition lawmakers led by Wilfred Sossion (nominated) and Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya) decided to abscond voting. Other Opposition MPs who were present include Tom Odege (Nyatike), Onyango K'Oyoo (Muhoroni), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay) and Rose Museo (Makueni). “It's unfortunate that we are here engaging in one of the most reckless and unconstitutional activities. Voting out committee leaders because some political leaders want so is super manipulation. We are defiling the independence of Parliament,” said Mr Sossion. ALSO READ:

NASA deserts rebel MPs fighting Uhuru National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai told The Standard on Tuesday that the four would remain leaders of their respective committees until a case they filed in court challenging their de-whipping was determined. High Court Judge John Mativo is expected to hear and determine the case,  by the defiant MPs blocking their removal from the committee leadership, today. Meanwhile, some residents of Uasin Gishu county have blamed President Kenyatta and Ruto for what they termed as "interfering" with the leadership of parliamentary select committees. The residents who were reacting to yesterday’s ouster of Keter, Tiren and Bowen, said they were dismayed by the decision . “The Executive used their powers to intimidate the Legislature. They should have followed the law and allowed the leaders voted in by their colleagues to work for the sake of the people,” said Isaiah Andrew. Nahashon Kemboi said the executive should have waited for the courts to decide. Stay order “The MPs went to court and the court granted them a stay order. The vote of no confidence is uncalled for,” said Mr Kemboi. On Monday, some residents held a peaceful protest stating that they would support their leader’s decision if they choose to leave Jubilee and join other parties if they are coerced to leave the leadership of the parliamentary select committees. ALSO READ:

Judges’ new warning to Kenya on elections