Hundreds of county employees could be sent home after an audit ordered by the governor.
 On Wednesday, Governor Cyprian Awiti told the county staff that his government would no longer keep staff it does not need and whose employment cannot be verified. 
 ALSO READ:

Man kills former wife in Homabay 

 “We are embarking on an audit of all staff. We want know what each of our employees does. We will definitely weed out those earning salaries but add no value to us,” said Mr Awiti.
 Speaking to journalists in his office, Awiti said he was alarmed that the county was spending more than two -thirds of its annual allocation from the National Treasury to pay workers, leaving only a third for development.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Last month, the county sacked 650 casual employees in an attempt to cut the bloated wage bill.
 “We started with the casual workers, we are now targeting those on the payroll and cannot account for their positions,” said Awiti.
 He defended the plan to trim his staff, saying it was not political but meant to spur development.
 “We mean well for the county. This decision will enable us get funds for development projects that will improve the lives of the citizens,” he said.
 Productive staff
 The governor said the decision would not be reversed. 
 ALSO READ:

Three-year-old boy pushed out of a moving matatu

 “We cannot be deterred from realising our development agenda just because some people want to earn salaries and wages. We will ensure the county government has productive staff only,” he said.
 According to the governor, county development will focus on six pillars - health, agriculture, clean water, infrastructural development, industrialisation, and housing.
 “Proper arrangements are in place to ensure Homa Bay residents’ lives are improved,” he said.
 His deputy, Hamilton Orata, supported the plan to trim the staff, saying it would help the county meet the development needs of the people.
 “We will ensure each and every county official delivers according to stipulated expectations,” said Mr Orata.
 A number of roads have been earmarked for rehabilitation in collaboration with the national government.
 These include Pala-Riat in Ndhiwa constituency, Mbita-Sindo in Suba South constituency, and Kendu Bay-Oyugis in Karachuonyo constituency.
