Security agents have launched a manhunt for five Al Shabaab militants of Kenyan origin who escaped from the terror groups’ cells in southern Somalia and entered the country. The militants are suspected to have traveled through Gedo in Southern Somalia and sneaked into the country through either Boni forest to Kiunga or Ras Kamboni with the intention of going back to their Lamu and Malindi homes. ALSO READ:

Woman killed, officer missing in highway attack They were being held in captivity by Al Shabaab awaiting execution after they were accused of communicating with the leader of ‘Jaysh Ayman’ Ahmed Iman Ali who the terror group believes is conspiring with the Kenyan security agents and negotiating for his return in exchange for information. The five are said to have been taken into custody towards the end of last year on suspicion of spying for Kenyan authorities. The militants’ suspicion is further reinforced by the devastating air strikes by US forces and Amisom troops in the recent past. The airstrikes have accurately targeted Al Shabaab leaders raising suspicion of leaks from especially foreign fighters who have fallen out with locals. Iman, the once vocal Al Shabaab propagandist who used to taunt adversaries, fell out with the Al Shabaab leadership mid last year following the execution of Kenyan fighters over frivolous spying allegations. The Kenyans were under his command. Intelligence reports reveal that the Jaysh Ayman leader has been seeking amnesty from the Kenyan government in exchange for information. Animosity has been rife within Al Shabaab and intelligence reports indicate that Kenyans in the group are the most affected. Somali fighters who consider the Kenyans as moles have isolated them. ALSO READ:

Kenya's long and lonely walk to Kismayu In the past, Al Shabaab has publicly executed Kenyan fighters whom they accuse of collaborating with the KDF troops in Somalia. The mistrust between the local Al Shabaab militants and foreign fighters has led to emergence of splinter factions. The Kenyan militants opted to support Ahmed Iman Ali who is now at loggerheads with Al Shabaab leadership.