An innocent river snaking its way through the hills and valleys of Nyamira County has become source of misery to people it is supposed to give life to. Now, it is a taker of life. ALSO READ:

Fired county officers to know fate on Monday River Gucha has seen its fare share of protests. Last week, the tussle over a proposed multi-billion shilling dam project at Bonyunyu turned bloody when a man was shot dead. Up in smoke The dam has divided the local community right down the middle, pitting neighbours who have for long lived harmoniously against each other. There are those who support the project and those opposing it. The man shot dead was in a group which had blocked surveyors dispatched to the area to carry out feasibility studies of the proposed dam. The previous day, tens of women had held demonstrations against the project. Eight houses belonging to people believed to be in support of the project have been torched in eight months, sparking fear among the residents who had given the project a nod. Early this month, a group of demonstrating youth attempted to set area MP Shadrack Mose’s house on fire, but were thwarted by the police. Electricity supply to his house was cut off by the protesters. The MP has been accused of siding with the national government in “forcing” the water project down on the community. Protests against the proposed dam were heightened when Opposition leader Raila Odinga launched campaigns against construction of dams along major rivers across the country. ALSO READ:

County sets aside Sh70 million to construct offices Over the last two years, blame games have played out between locals and implementors of the scheme -- the Lake Victoria South Water Services Board (LVSWB) -- over the heightened tensions brought by the opposition to the dam. Nyamira County Commissioner Isaiah Nakoru is now talking tough, and has warned against attempts to block the project. Mr Nakoru pointed an accusing finger to local politicians who he accuses of fueling the conflict. “At first, they spread falsehoods about the dam that it will lead to displacement of many people. The truth is that only three homes will be affected. Then the hate mongers lied to the people that even those who will be affected will never be compensated,” he said. Last September, elders drawn from villages along River Gucha said they do not trust the government to compensate affected families. They cited Nyangori Water Project, some 10 kilometres from Bonyunyu, where residents who lost their crops during the laying of supply pipes to Keroka town, were not compensated. “I lost my tea crop and to date, I have never been compensated,” said Jason Ogoro, a resident of Bonyama. In January last year, the Dutch government -- which is funding the project -- said it will only release funds once it is assured that the community supports the project and a well structured compensation programme has been drawn. ALSO READ:

Coffee factories face closure over environmental pollution But the government is ada mant the project must go on. Victor Omanwa, the director LVSWB, told Saturday Standard those opposing the project are only bitter that they will not benefit from the compensation. “The dam will be a key development beacon because hotels will spruce up, fishing will be upgraded and recreational activities will be brought to the area,” he said. Dialogue calls Nakoru says those opposed to the project are occupy riparian land. “There is a standard demarcation from the river beyond which, anyone affected will be compensated. But there will be no such consideration if someone is sitting on land which is ideally government land,” Nakoru said. The compensation, he says, will only cover those whose land lies beyond 30 yards from the river bank. Many people living near River Gucha have planted Blue Gum trees along river banks. Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrack Mose had supported for the project earlier. He now wants dialogue between the government and locals. “The locals have reservations over the project. A middle ground must be found,” he said. Mose’s predecessor Timothy Bosire accused the Government of “arm-twisting locals to accept the project they consider less important to them.” ALSO READ:

Chinese firm floors Israelis to win Sh30 billion dam tender “The people of Nyamira have a land crisis, yet someone else is trying to force them to accept a project that will push them out,” said Bosire. But even as the controversy deepens, the government is adamant that works on the dam will go on. Nakoru has warned that anyone who interferes with the project will be arrested and prosecuted.