A man who was beaten to death by a matatu crew following an altercation over an accident on Christmas Eve was buried yesterday.
 Joseph Ng’ethe Kiarie, 33, was buried at the family home in Komo village, Gatunyaga ward, Thika East, in a ceremony where police came under sharp criticism for taking too long to arrest the suspects. 
 ALSO READ:

Four linked to murder of business man arraigned in court 

 Family spokesman Antony Koinange however said two suspects had been arrested as they hid in their homes in Murang'a County, adding that the family was optimistic that justice would be served.
 “From the postmortem results, it is evident that our brother died a very painful death. What we want as a family is for justice to prevail. Those who took his life must be brought to book and we will not relent until that happens,” said Mr Koinange.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Preliminary postmortem results showed Mr Kiarie was hit on the back of his head and on the jaw with a blunt object.
 Koinange said his brother was a visionary and a focused person, adding that his death was a big blow to the family.
 “Our brother had a great vision of where he wanted to be. He was a man destined to greatness before his life was taken in the most cruel manner.
 "We are orphans and even if our brother was the last among 10 children, he was our key support financially and in other ways. We always looked up to him and it is hard to imagine how life will be without him,” he said.
 Dedicated Christian
 Kiarie was eulogised as a humble, God-fearing and dedicated Christian who attended church religiously. 
 ALSO READ:

Brutal murder forces motorist to take great, ambitious plans to grave

 “My brother was a very religious person. He loved to engage in church work,” said his sister Pauline Kiarie.
 Former presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot, who attended the funeral, accused police of laxity in arresting the suspects.
 Mr Aukot claimed the suspects were being covered by senior police officers linked to Mariba Sacco.
 Aukot promised to provide the family with lawyers who would offer free legal services in order to ensure justice for their brother.
 Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange, who chairs the Committee on Administration and National Security in the National Assembly, called on the Government to ensure that the perpetrators were brought to book.
