A few months to the 2002 General Election, a group of ambitious former university students hatched a sinister plot that could have altered Kenya’s political equation then. They planned to ‘abduct’ then Local Government minister Musalia Mudavadi for a few weeks then ‘unleash’ him onto an expectant nation as the ‘alternative’ presidential candidate. Kanu had surprised many with the choice of Uhuru Kenyatta as the party’s flagbearer in that election and several veteran politicians had to regroup and pick one widely acceptable candidate. Indeed, that is when Raila Odinga came up with the ‘Kibaki Tosha’ slogan and caught everyone else flat-footed and they had to agree on Mwai Kibaki as the Opposition candidate. The rest is history — and hysteria. ALSO READ:

Could Igathe's resignation be a trick or just politics? Today, Kenya is caught up in a pro-longed political uncertainty after last year’s highly divisive presidential elections. The ruling Jubilee Party finds itself in a protracted process of naming its full Cabinet line-up and members to key parliamentary committees. Kenyans have been on edge for nearly three months after President Kenyatta was sworn-in, but he is yet to name his full Cabinet. Some 13 Cabinet Secretaries are unsure of their future after the President nominated three people for CS positions and stated that he was retaining only six CSs. In Parliament, four Jubilee MPs have defied their party wishes and refused to step down as leaders of certain House teams. Apparently, their election has upset Jubilee Party’s agreement on regional balance and they have not only refused to step down but threatened to ditch the President’s party. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, Silas Tiren (Moiben), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East) and James Gakuya (Embakasi North) have earned the tag of ‘rebel MPs’ for their stance. Time will tell how that goes because the party has already mooted the idea of de-whipping them. In turn, they have accused the party leadership of opposing them at the behest of corruption cartels. In the Opposition, NASA leaders seem divided on the planned ‘swearing-in’ of co-principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as the people’s president and deputy president. Some MPs have prepared a document pledging loyalty to Raila and Kalonzo, which they insist every elected NASA leader must sign. They say the pledge will weed out MPs, senators and governors who have been working with Jubilee at night but pretend to be in NASA during the day. Interesting times. The art of seizing the moment came to mind early this week when one of the former university students whose ‘Mudavadi plot’ flopped, admitted that timing is everything in politics. He also admitted that President Kenyatta is now in State House for his final term. Those with ambitions of succeeding him should launch their game plans with that in mind. The former university student is today an MP and he says there is no limit to where he can go, and that timing will be crucial. Meanwhile, Kenyans are craving for a courageous leader to seize the moment and capture their imagination. They also want their leaders to cut down on political rhetoric and focus on nation-building. Five years is a long time to solely dwell on politics of succession at the expense of challenges in healthcare provision, education, economy, job creation and infrastructure development. The faster we embark on these challenges as a nation, the faster we will begin addressing marginalisation, restoration of unity and cohesion. Again, timing is crucial. **** ALSO READ:

Puzzling history of cabinet appointments, sackings in Kenya Lastly, something good must be happening at the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF). For long, the public health insurance agency has been receiving flak from Kenyans due to poor services. NHIF has also been accused in the past of being a political cash cow. But just this week, four of my friends told me how their elderly parents underwent expensive surgical procedures in hospital and the NHIF footed the bills. All they had to do was ensure the NHIF card payments are up to date. What a pleasant surprise in the New Year! The writer is Revise Editor at The Standard, Weekend Editions. gnjaramba@standardmedia.co.ke