 Monday began normally for Patrick Nderitu's family as his wife prepared their three children for school. ALSO READ:

Police arrest 65 year old man for killing wife She then escorted seven-year-old Joe Muraya to Varsity Aim Academy, about two kilometres away, and her twins – Jeff Mutua and Joy Wangui, aged three years – to By Grace Academy, a stone's throw from their home. Rosemary Kanini, 31, then joined her 45-year-old husband in their three-bedroom house, built in 2015, located in Maraba village in Juja, Kiambu County, and went about her chores as usual. Her husband, a supervisor at Hilani Quarry in Juja, excused himself to run some errands and promised he would be back before dusk. At about 4pm, she received her children and served them tea and cake. After the snack, the children took their bicycles and rode them within their well-secured compound as they waited for their mother to cook supper. At 8pm, mother and children enjoyed a meal of rice, meat and cabbage before they retired to bed, looking forward to another day in school. Visited briefly According to Mirriam Wangui, a neighbour who briefly visited the family in the evening, Ms Kanini was alone as the children had left their mother in the spacious sitting room watching television and waiting for her husband of eight years to return so she could serve him supper before they retired to bed. Mr Nderitu, who originally came from Kiamabara village in Karatina, Nyeri County, returned an hour later and ate supper. The couple is then said to have retired to their bedroom. ALSO READ:

Policeman kills boss, injures two officers at Makueni police station But the family's peace was rudely disrupted at around 1am yesterday, with screams from the wife and children as they pleaded with the patriarch to spare their lives. Neighbours who responded to the distress calls found it hard to access the home as the metal gate was locked from the inside. So they used a crowbar and mattock to break though the gate and finally entered the compound. Yesterday, the neighbours recounted how they encountered a second hurdle - the main door to the house was also locked from the inside. By this time, the screams had subsided and fire had engulfed part of the house, including the sitting room, the kitchen and the children's bedroom. Same tools “Using the same tools, we broke the door and entered the house. We found Nderitu, who was on fire, screaming in pain in the sitting room,” said John Kamau, one of the neighbours. “We pulled him out to the verandah, where there was no fire, and poured cold water on him to put out the fire,” added Mr Kamau. The neighbours then went to the master bedroom to check on Kanini but were shocked find the lifeless bodies of mother and children. “Kanini was lying on her back on the bed. On closer scrutiny, we saw deep cuts and stab wounds on the head, chest and neck," said Jackson Thuku, another neighbour. "Close to her chest was a knife with fresh blood. The bodies of the three children, which also bore deep wounds, were on the floor near the bed.” According to the witnesses, all the bodies had multiple cuts on the head, chest and neck. They were all in the master bedroom and the children were sprawled on the floor. Nderitu's charred body was on the verandah. He did not appear to have any cuts. The remnants of the last supper were on some plates and in sufurias in the kitchen, where there were other unwashed dishes. Juja OCPD Patricia Nasio said they were called by neighbours at 1.30am and informed that there was a house on fire in the area. “We rushed there and found the mother and her three children had been strangled and cut using a sharp object. All of them were dead, including the man, who had been burned,” said Ms Nasio. She added that the police were investigating the cause of the five deaths. “We didn’t find any suicide note as claimed by the neighbours, or any phones of the deceased,” she said. The bodies were taken the City Mortuary in Nairobi.