 The  National Super Alliance has promised the world that History will be made today. This is in anticipation of the ‘swearing-in’ ceremony expected to take place at Uhuru Park grounds. ALSO READ:

Rowdy NASA youth destroy billboard on Uhuru Highway NASA leader Raila Odinga has come out to assure supporters of the swearing ceremony that will happen today. In an interview with KTN News, Raila said they were unstoppable and the will of people to achieve electoral justice and ethnic inclusivity must be achieved. "The function is on. There is no doubt about that. Hold your horses. After the swearing in you will be told what will happen going forward. What I will tell everyone is that everything will be according to the law and the constitution and it will be peaceful," he said. Initially, there was a standoff on the ‘swearing-in’ ceremony as the state termed it unconstitutional and vowed that it will not happen. However, that directive seems to be taking a soft stance after a contingent of police who had been deployed to Uhuru Park has since been withdrawn. According to ODM chairman John Mbadi, Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka will leave no stone unturned. “They are set to be sworn in at one o'clock. After delivering his speech, he will give the direction this country is going to take.” He said. In an interview at his home in Karen, Nairobi, Kalonzo condemned the shut down of television stations that were broadcasting the NASA event. He said the media is under attack. The NASA leader also faulted the government for withdrawing his security detail. The government had initially warned media houses not to cover the event lest they risk losing their licences. However, the media houses defied that order after the Kenya Editor’s Guild (KEG) protested the threats on gagging media. ALSO READ:

Periodic update of Raila ‘swearing-in’ Today, Supporters of NASA begun thronging in as early as 6.00 AM, some on foot and some in numerous hired buses. However, not all were lucky to get the free ride. Supporters from Bondo got a rude awakening when their governor Cornel Rasanga failed to provide buses to ferry them to Nairobi to witness the historic moment. Hundreds of thousands from Mombasa had their buses intercepted for allegedly flouting traffic rules. In Kisumu, most businesses are closed down. Business people say they do not want to interfere with “Baba”’s limelight. The supporters who didn't make it to Nairobi can be seen celebrating around town.They expect that once Raila is sworn in he should go ahead and name his cabinet just like Uhuru Kenyatta did and that nobody should interfere with it.