Tuesday's swearing-in of Raila Odinga as the 'people's president' and the events that accompanied the function showed us the calibre of leaders we have. It was the clearest pointer to the fact that we are caught up in a contest between two sides of the political divide where one side is trying to get power while the other is determined to keep it. ALSO READ:

Media Council: We demand an explanation That politicians care more about themselves than anything else has never been in doubt. They will lie, betray, and back-stab one another to remain relevant and partake in the eating of State largesse. The confusion that surrounded the NASA function was an attestation to this. By imposing a media blackout, denying citizens their right of access to information, the Government failed to prove that it was any better than the Opposition it is accusing of failing to follow the dictates of the supreme law of the land. The muzzling of the media was unfortunate and unconstitutional, and paints the picture of a government not at ease with the truth. The reality is that the media in Kenya are not sympathisers of either the National Super Alliance or the Jubilee Party. The media have a responsibility to relay information on what is happening around the country as and when it occurs. By trying to determine what the media report, the Government is telling us that the democratic principles we hold dear for our advancement as a nation and a people do not matter, that executive fiat must carry the day. It is in the hands of Kenyans to chart their path to prosperity. ALSO READ:

State crackdown on media bodes ill for our democracy Unemployment remains high, with close to 50 per cent of all employable youths having no meaningful jobs. The masses are seeking solutions to their problems and look to their leaders to provide solutions or a formula to attaining the solutions. But leadership in Kenya has evolved into an avenue to privilege. In the face of mounting challenges, leaders must cultivate and gain public confidence to placate an increasingly cynical citizenry. Yet it is foolhardy to rest the entire destiny of Kenya in the hands of self-seekers. It will require clarity of mind, hard work, and unanimity of purpose to manage the destiny of Kenya. In our own small ways, we can all make Kenya the country we want. ALSO READ:

Kenyans outraged by State move to shut down media