The Kericho County Assembly mace was thrown out of the window as MCAs fought after they differed over the Sh100 million Kerenga Airstrip upgrade project. All the 47 MCAs were at the chamber at 11am ready for debate on the Kericho Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2017, when the fracas broke out. Trouble began immediately after the Assembly Speaker Dominic Rono instructed members of the Press and public to leave the chambers before MCAs could begin their special sitting debate. However, MCAs opposed to the airport project led by Soliat Ward Representative Albert Kipkoech (Budget and Appropriation Committee chairman), Josephat Ruto (Deputy Speaker), Paul Chirchir (Roads and Infrastructure Committee chairman), Erick Bii (nominated), reached for the mace and threw it out of the window, shattering the panes. It was retrieved by Sergeant-at-Arms assistants and security guards. County Assembly Roads and Infrastructure Committee chairman Paul Chirchir maintained that construction of airports was not a county function, but a responsibility of the national government. “We require the governor (Paul Chepkwony) to provide annual development plan showing that Kerenga Airstrip was captured in it. It’s not there. It’s just in the county integrated development plan which makes it illegal," said Mr Chirchir. Chirchir added: “If we pass a budget allocating more money on that item, it will be illegal. We ask Kericho residents to bear with us. We will stand by the common mwananchi.” Ainamoi MCA Cheruiyot Bett was adamant that the project was not a priority for county residents. “During the campaign period, none of us promised the residents an airport. What is on record are projects such as clean piped water supply, roads construction, bursaries among others,” he said. But Kipchebor MCA Erik Bett argued that contrary to claims by project opponents, the assembly had allocated adequate funds to other development projects. “The governor only requires Sh100 million out of the Sh5.9 billion in supplementary budget. If the Government is supposed to partner with us, we must show some commitment. Sh100m will give us a basis of argument with the national government for us owning the project,” he said.