The Government will use Shs 70 million to rebuild houses, which were destroyed by Langata fire that broke out on Sunday night killing four people, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Mr Ruto while touring the Kijijini area, bordering Southlands in Langata following the inferno regretted that property worth millions of shillings had been destroyed. ALSO READ:

S.Sudan rebel group release 15 prisoners He assured the affected families that the Government would help them to rebuild their houses so that they can continue with their lives. The Deputy President who was accompanied by Langata MP Nixon Korir said the fire could not be contained last night because of lack of water and lack of access road to the affected areas. “The department of Special Programmes and the Provincial Administration will be given Shs 70 million to begin the process of rebuilding the houses as soon as possible,” said Mr Ruto. He asked the provincial administration and leaders from the area to furnish the Government will the genuine list of the people who were affected by the tragedy. “We want the genuine list of all the people who have been affected so that they can work with us in rebuilding their houses,” said Mr Ruto. He said the national government in collaboration with the Nairobi County government was working round the clock to provide temporary shelter and food to the affected families. “ I know many children and mothers have nowhere to sleep but we are doing our best to help them as we have already delivered enough food for those affected,” said Mr Ruto. Mr Ruto said water problems would soon be a thing of the past in Langata constituency, as Athi Water Services will use Shs 4billion to connect water from Uthiru through Karen. ALSO READ:

Four dead in Kijiji slum fire He said Shs 700 million worth of pipes have already been purchased to connect the water from Karen to Langata. Mr Ruto said the national government and the county government would jointly build the Tunnel Market in the Constituency to help the residents engage in their business activities so as to improve their lives. Mr Korir thanked the Government for moving swiftly to explore ways of helping the affected families. “We thank the Government through the Deputy President for its commitment to help the affected families rebuild their houses as well as provision of food for the families,” said Mr Korir. 