Teachers Service Commission (TSC) secretary and Chief Executive Dr Nancy Macharia has said  ongoing curriculum changes in the education sector will have three pathways at senior Secondary school level hence the need to continuously update teachers’ content and delivery skills through regular training. “The pathways will comprise Arts and Sports, social sciences   and Science, Technical, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) that in particular will require teachers to continuously upgrade their pedagogical and ICT skills,” said Dr Macharia in a speech read on her behalf by Ag. Deputy TSC Secretary Mr Simon Kavisi at a stake holders meeting in Nakuru on Strengthening of Mathematics and Science Education (SMASE). ALSO READ:

School principals take up new postings The annual two day workshop held under the aegis of  the Centre for Mathematics, Science and Technology Education in Africa (CEMASTEA) brought together TSC County Directors, Regional Coordinators of education, County Directors of education, Kenya Secondary School Heads Association Chairpersons, quality assurance and standards officers and education officers from all over the country. Dr Macharia described as critical the role of science education in the realization of Vision 2030 adding: “We require students who will be innovators to launch this country on the path to industrialization. The world is rapidly changing, leaving us with no choice but to equip our children for the 21st century by continuously updating our teachers content and delivery skills”. She noted that CEMASTEA had been in the forefront of incubating projects that have won national awards in science and engineering fairs, thus encouraging more students to enter scientific projects in the fairs, a practice that spurs innovation and invention. The TSC boss commended CEMASTEA for rolling out a pilot project of teaching Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) in 102 public secondary schools across the country where SMASE compliant teachers are carrying out vital aspects of the new curriculum. “As a commission, we shall explore ways of partnering with CEMASTEA in the delivery of some Teacher Professional Development (TPD) programmes,” she said. Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Education Dr Belio Kipsang said in a speech read by the Director in charge of special needs at the Ministry Mrs Maria Cherono that principals of day secondary schools must adhere to the no money policy or else face the wrath of the ministry.  “We demand 100% compliance to the free education policy and issues such as lunch should only be dealt with after students have reported upon agreement with parents before any money is paid,” said Dr Kipsang. ALSO READ:

Uhuru orders ministries to issue three million students with NHIF cover He said students with special needs ought to be accommodated and not turned away as has happened in some schools. He said the Government had invested heavily on the Strengthening of Mathematics and Science Education (SMASE) activities through capitation under the free day secondary education (FDSE). “The Ministry has issued a handbook for the management of teacher professional development programmes that spell out management structures, roles, responsibilities and functions of the various stakeholders and financing SMASE at country level. CEMASTEA Director Mr Stephen Njoroge said the training of teachers to carry out STEM programmes had been devolved to the Counties. He said 1176 County trainers would be trained this year.