Mombasa County Government has employed three women to improve efficiency of the county fire brigade. The employees Janet Chari, Chiku Abdalah and Mwanakombo Hussein – will now be key in saving lives and property, a duty that demands sacrifice as workers are on call 24-hours a day. ALSO READ:

NIC expands network with four new branches “We have devolved and are an equal opportunity employer in line with our Constitution. Governor Hassan Ali Joho and his County Executive Member incharge of Transport Tawfiq Balala have made it possible for women to be enlisted in the Fire Brigade Department, which was set up in 1945,” said Salim Mwamlevi, Chief Fire Officer at the Mombasa County Fire Brigade and Emergency Service. Chari, a former student at Eldoro Girls High School in Taveta, said she was moved by the desire to help save lives. “This is a physically demanding job that has taught me a lot and prepared me to handle events as they occur,” said the mother of one. Mwanakombo, a mother of three, noted that the job requires one to be selfless and courageous to face the lurking danger that comes with emergencies. “Firefighting is a civic calling which has been previously dominated by men. We are telling all and sundry that we are upto the task and are ready to put our lives on the line to save others,” she said. Chiku, a former student of Ngala Memorial Secondary School disclosed that she took up the job following encouragement and support by her male colleagues. “Just like our male colleagues, female firefighters require the same competency and courage to make it in the profession. We give our best shot and deserve equal recognition,” she said. She wants to work hard and rise up to the rank of chief fire officer. “Firefighters often work for long hours. We are on call 24 hours a day hence a section of fire stations have accommodation and special lounge areas where firefighters await emergency calls,” Mr Mwamlevi said. He explained that in their operations, they have set a minimum of 8 minutes to arrive at a scene, however this is hampered by traffic jam. ALSO READ:

New cases of viral fever reported in Mombasa Mwamlevi adds that the County Inspectorate department traffic marshals clear the way for them. “Fires can occur anytime of the day or night. You have to be ready to embrace a way of life that requires you to drop whatever you are doing on short notice to respond to the situation,” he said.