Opposition leader Raila Odinga was given a Bible as a gift by leaders as he marked his 73rd birthday on Sunday.
 Leaders in Kakamega gave Raila the Holy Book and asked him to take oath during his planned swearing-in this month. 
 ALSO READ:

Kenyans celebrate Raila as he turns 73

 The gift was presented by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala on behalf of Members of Parliament (MPs) and Senators.
 According to Mr Malala, National Super Alliance (NASA) MPs will swear an affidavit to recognise Raila as ‘people's president’.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

  
  
  
  
  
   
 ALSO READ:

Kalonzo: I want to have a chat with Uhuru

 The National Super Alliance (NASA) leader also announced his swearing-in date as the ‘people’s president’.
 Speaking on Sunday in Kakamega, Raila vowed that he would be sworn in on January 30, 2018 together with Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka.
 The Opposition chief also dared the Government to arrest him and NASA leaders after the inauguration.
 "On January 30, I will be sworn in and this time it's a real deal and anyone saying its treason let him come and arrest us. The event is not only about carrying the Bible and saying 'I swear', we want to make it real. We want this swearing-in process to be inclusive of all Kenyans. That's why we are discussing before we go ahead,” said Raila.
 The former Prime Minister was accompanied by NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang'ula and other leaders.
 
 Kenyans on Sunday also took to Twitter using the hashtag #HappyBirthdayRaila to send Raila happy birthday messages. 
 ALSO READ:

Raila insists on oath amid confusion on rally’s venue

 Opposition leaders and supporters in Western region surprised the Opposition leader with a cake in celebration of his 73rd birthday, moments before the start of People’s Assembly forum in Kakamega.
 Raila arrived in Kakamega Sunday morning accompanied by Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula among other NASA leaders for the People’s Assembly session.
 The following are some of the tweets on Raila's birthday:
 @KitoiO When darkness is so thick, there is hope that light will come in the morning. You @RailaOdinga baba is the dawn of a better and a united country. Never let go of your vision for our country Kenya. #HappyBirthdayRaila
 @davidmu31 #HappyBirthdayRaila The Joshua we are looking up to. I wish you a strong and healthy days ahead. Have a blast BABAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!  I have your present and I will hand it over to you.  Enjoy your D-day the peoples President.
 @Solicitor_001 #HappyBirthdayRaila Jakom you are the best gift to Kenya, keep the fire burning @RailaOdinga
