Kenyans are again on the edge after President Uhuru Kenyatta unveiled his new Cabinet even as the Opposition released what they called results of the August 2017 presidential elections. The Government and NASA are headed to a potentially dangerous political collision. ALSO READ:

Industry players welcome Tourism, Wildlife docket While the President seemingly closed the door on dialogue after naming his new team in government, NASA leader Raila Odinga and his co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka have vowed that they will be sworn in as people’s president and deputy on Tuesday. There is anxiety and apprehension on what could be birthed on January 30th, hence our call to leaders from both sides of the political divide, to climb down from their pedestal and hammer out a political solution. No side has the luxury of burying their heads in the sand and assume things will be back to normal any time soon. Last year’s elections have left the country more divided than ever. The time for true statesmen and patriotic Kenyans to speak up and seek a lasting solution is now. No amount of taunting, cajoling or intimidation can sweep under the carpet many of the political challenges facing the country today. The Opposition successfully challenged the August 8 presidential poll but boycotted the October 26th repeat presidential election which the Jubilee Party eventually won. Now, Kenya must begin to heal the rifts that made huge regions boycott the repeat presidential election. Why did they protest so painfully, even losing lives and limb in the process? Why did they feel not part of the whole, and have even contemplated walking away? What can be done? This is the political solution all Kenyans must constantly seek. The fact is that Jubilee and NASA politicians know each other too well. ALSO READ:

Abawanga kingdom gets first CS since independence They should engage each other now for the country to get into serious nation building. Daring each other to a duel we all know could lead us to anarchy, is not the option Kenyans want. Still, the country must move forward and address challenges that face the common man on a daily basis. The faster we solve the political question, the faster we will be able to address these national challenges. 