A primary school in Homa Bay County is in mourning after a teacher committed suicide within the school compound. The incident comes hours after a pupil in a neighbouring village also took away his life under mysterious circumstances ALSO READ:

Class four pupil hangs himself over Sh100 bet In the first incident, Samuel Omuga, a teacher at Muiraria Primary School in Suba South Sub County took away his life in his house within the school compound over alleged domestic affairs. According to area Assistant Chief William Kisima, the 44 year old teacher was said to have differed with his mother over the upkeep of his children. Kisima said a suicide note written by the deceased indicated that he decided to make the move after the mother declined to give him his kin to take care of his children while he is at work. Kisima said the deceased had taken his wife back to school for further studies and had told his mother that he had difficulties in taking care of his children and at the same time concentrate on teaching and running his own school called Agape Academy. “He had taken his wife back to school and he wanted his mother to give him a child who could take care of his two children. But it seems the mother declined his demand,” said Kisima. Workers at Agape Academy were shocked by their boss’s demise. Homa Bay County Police Commander Marius Tum confirmed the incident saying “It is unfortunate that the man has killed himself and left a young family. We are investigating what actually transpired.” Omuga’s body was taken to Sori Lake Side Mortuary for postmortem. ALSO READ:

Motorcycles impounded after torching of bus Elsewhere, a 15 year old pupil committed suicide at Wiga Village in Kanyach Kachar Location in Homa Bay Sub County. Stephen Oluoch killed himself at their home over unknown reasons. His step father Paul Odhiambo said the minor did not leave a note to inform them of what might have led to his death. Tum urged Homa Bay residents to share their problems to enable them get solutions when difficulties in the society. The Police boss expressed concern over the rise cases of suicide in the county. “Our people need to seek guidance and counseling during difficult moments to reduce cases of suicide in the county,” said Tum. The body was taken to Homa Bay County referral hospital mortuary.