State ministries and departments have slowed down as anxiety over Cabinet and Principal Secretaries’ appointments continue to mount. Speaking to Sunday Standard, several CSs and PSs openly admitted that things have slowed down mainly because of the uncertainty around the fate of senior State officers but also because current CSs and PSs have since lost the leeway to commit on anything. ALSO READ:

Uhuru whips rebel Rift MPs “It’s not exactly paralysis. Basically, things have to a large extent slowed down across government. Anxiety over appointments is high because we basically do not know our fate. Other than that, there is also a directive in force from Head of Public Service in regard to what we and our PSs can and cannot do,” said one CS. Hand over notes “We have also lost some clout because our juniors believe some of us will not make it back, so our ideas and instructions are sometimes not taken very seriously,” he added. Towards the end of 2017, Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua had fired a memo to CSs, PSs and head of state corporations giving them instructions to prepare hand-over notes. The memo by Kinyua was the clearest indication then that the process of making Cabinet appointments by the President was at an advanced stage. This was, however, not to be because 52 days after the President was sworn in, he is yet to make the much awaited announcement. It was expected President Kenyatta would unveil the remaining list of 13 CSs by close of business on Friday. He had previously retained six CSs and named three new faces in his new look Cabinet. Those who were retained include James Macharia (Transport), Fred Matiang’i (Interior, acting Education), Najib Balala (Tourism), Joe Mucheru (ICT), Charles Keter (Energy) and Henry Rotich (National Treasury). ALSO READ:

200 sacked as Jubilee restructures secretariat As at yesterday, reports were emerging that the delay had been caused by extensive consultations involving the President, Deputy President William Ruto and other players in pursuit of a Cabinet that would ensure regional and gender balance. It also emerged that leaders from various regions have failed to agree on the names to be fronted to the President for consideration. “Politicians and other stakeholders do not seem to agree on people to recommend to the President because different camps have different suggestions. In the end, the President will exercise his discretion. Some will be happy, others will be upset but that is life. Life would be boring if everyone was happy at the same time and vice versa. Such is life,” said another source. In a classic case of divided interests, a faction of the Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders has asked the President to retain Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi while another group want former Meru Governor Peter Munya named. Late last year, the council of elders refuted claims they were divided on who they want President Kenyatta to appoint and hoped that their sons would be considered. Last week, a group of MPs from Bungoma threatened to decamp from Jubilee if Water Minister Eugene Wamalwa was not retained. Kimilili MP Dismus Barasa said they had brought the President votes and were expecting that Wamalwa will be rewarded by being retained. ALSO READ:

Wait for new cabinet nominees continues In Laikipia County, some leaders led by Senator John Kinyua, Laikipia North MP Sarah Korere and her Laikipia West counterpart Patrick Mariru have urged the President to retain Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. And last week, Deputy President Ruto, while addressing a meeting of Kalenjin leaders, is reported to have told them to be patient as they work on the full Cabinet. “He told us consultations were still going on and that he was happy and contented. He asked us to focus on building a better Kenya and that the decision on who to appoint in the Cabinet was that of the President,” said an MP who attended the meeting. But there are those who believe that President Kenyatta’s delay in naming his Cabinet has been influenced by the current political quagmire and the ongoing talks on the crisis caused by the elections last year. Dialogue calls The NASA leadership has maintained that it will not recognise the legitimacy of President Kenyatta and insist they will swear in their leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka on January 30. There have been sustained calls by clerics and envoys led by Catholic Bishop Alfred Rotich and US Ambassador Robert Godec for talks between NASA and Jubilee to end the political crisis. According to Bishop Rotich, dialogue will bring the country together. “We have reached out to all the leaders across the political divide and we hope they will end well. We will only end the talks when the top leaders come together to unite Kenyans,” he said. ALSO READ:

US gives millions for Uhuru, Raila talks