Residents of Marindi village in Migori County were shocked after a man who was presumed dead returned to the village alive. Nicholas Okello, 34, a father of five, had disappeared from home two months ago. ALSO READ:

Varsity don in death probe freed Last week, a friend informed his family he had been killed and his body dumped in a river. Without verifying the reports, Mr Okello's family went into mourning and immediately made arrangements for his burial. On Wednesday, he arrived home unannounced and found relatives and friends mourning his death. He was drunk when he arrived and now blames alcohol for what befell him. His father Francis Nyamwanga, said his son went missing two months ago from their Marindi home, sparking a frantic search. Mr Nyamwanga said it was while searching for his son that he was told of a man killed and his body dumped in the crocodile infested River Migori. "The person who told me about his death was sure that he saw his body in the river and we could not doubt  him," said Mzee Nyamwanga. Some of the relatives even confirmed having seen his body at the Migori Level 5 Hospital mortuary. "We were dealing with an emergency. The mortuary attendant told us the body we believed was that of our son was decomposing fast, hence the need to collect it for burial. We organised a funds drive and were making final arrangements when my son resurfaced," he said. ALSO READ:

Milk vendor kills supplier over refund "Those who were at home mourning him took to their heels. Others refused to shake his hand, saying he was a ghost," he added. Church members On Tuesday night, mourners and church members at his home were shocked when Okello resurfaced while drunk. Okello was shocked to find people in his house. “I was shocked to find people mourning my death yet I'm still alive. I knelt down and prayed," he said. Okello, who looked shaken, said he was traumatised and may need counselling. "In Luo culture, this is a serious matter," he said, adding he had quit alcohol following the bizarre event. His father said his son would have to be cleansed by slaughtering a ram. ALSO READ:

Children die in fire tragedy