The unveiling of the full Cabinet by President Uhuru Kenyatta has given a new lease of life to politicians who were voted out in August General Election while other once vocal campaigners of the ruling Jubilee Party remain in the cold, perhaps pondering their next move. Most of those who made it back to the limelight have been nominated as Cabinet Secretaries or Chief Administration Secretaries (CAS), an indication that the president is keen on rewarding individuals who helped deliver his second term and at the same time bring some political spine within the Government. ALSO READ:

Leaders react to President Uhuru’s final term cabinet New docket Among those who were named include Simon Chelugui, who was nominated as the Water and Sanitation Cabinet Secretary. He lost the Baringo Senate race to Gideon Moi. Former Subukia MP Nelson Gachuihie who lost in Jubilee Party primaries was nominated as the National Treasury CAS. John Munyes who lost to Joseph Nanok in Turkana gubernatorial race was nominated as Cabinet Secretary of the newly created Ministry of Petroleum and Mining while former Marsabit Governor Ukur Yattani will take over the Labour docket. Former Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua was appointed State House Comptroller. One- time Council of Governors chair Peter Munya was picked for the new docket of East African Community and Northern Corridor Development, a reward for supporting President Uhuru during the October 26 repeat polls. Mr Munya briefly supported NASA after losing to Kiraitu Murungi before turning to Jubilee Party and eventually withdrawing a petition he had filed in court challenging Kiraitu’s election. Reward scheme ALSO READ:

Uhuru creates new powerful post, rewards election losers Others such as former West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin, former Tana River Governor Hussein Dado, former MPs Rachel Shebesh, Ababu Namwamba, Ken Obura and former Kisii Senator Chris Obure were nominated as CAS for various ministries. But as some celebrated their appointments, others seemed to have placed the wrong bets. Among them is former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, who jumped ship from NASA coalition to support Jubilee in the repeat polls amid rumours that he had been promised a position in the Government. Zedekiah Bundotich Kiprop, who lost Uasin Gishu Jubilee primaries to Jackson Mandago was also left out. Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, who lost the Busia governorship race to Sospeter Ojaamong, also missed out on the CS list. Hassan Omar, a former dyed-in-the wool opposition supremo-turned-Jubilee supporter also failed to make it to the Cabinet. So did Jubilee’s point man in Mombasa, Suleiman Shahbal and former Kajiado supremo David Nkedianye. The absence of former Kitui senator David Musila and former CIC chair Charles Nyachae was also quite telling given that they campaigned for Kenyatta. ALSO READ:

Amina, Wamalwa bounce back after 3-week scare Analysts say that although on face value the appointments might be perceived as a reward scheme to Kenyatta loyalists, some thought went into the constitution of the Cabinet that he hopes will help deliver his legacy projects. “It has more to do with Kenyatta’s legacy than the return of assistant ministers. He wants to take the performance of his administration to the next level after his first term. “He wants transformation be done in a new style,” Dr Philip Chebunet, a political science lecturer at the University of Eldoret said. However, other political observers say the constitutional dispensation does not recognise the CAS position. “Apart from one or two who have been civil servants, majority of them are not Public Service Commission appointees. “They are political appointees whose positions the Constitution doesn’t recognise,” says Ajwang Agina, a constitutional lawyer and commentator on topical issues. Conflicts in ministries He says the inclusion of politicians, some of whom have little knowledge of public service is a sure recipe for chaos within the ministries since the appointed politicians will be taking over responsibilities of those who know the ministries more than them. “What does Ababu Namwamba know about Foreign Affairs Ministry and Kenya’s foreign policy? ALSO READ:

Uhuru’s new Cabinet adds more than Sh1 billion burden to tax payers “He hasn’t been a diplomat. Having served as an assistant Minister for Sports before doesn’t qualify him,” he says. Most appointees, he says, are politicians who lack experiential qualifications and wonders what Rachel Shebesh will do at Youth Affairs Ministry. Patu Naikumi, a Human Capital Resource Management Consultant says there will definitely be conflicts in ministries these chief administrators who have no experience in civil service have been deployed to. “They will be advancing political interests rather than the public good in delivering services. Public services will definitely grind to a halt,” he says.