President Uhuru Kenyatta’s mini Cabinet has elicited mixed reactions from a section of leaders.
 The Council of Governors commended President Kenyatta for considering former governors and an ex-senator to be part of his new administration, even as some faulted lack of regional and gender balance in the appointments. 
 ALSO READ:

Shock, panic after Cabinet overhaul

 Council chairman Josphat Nanok said with the appointments, the President has demonstrated his commitment to support devolution. “The council wishes to congratulate the President for appointing pioneer governors Ukur Yattani, Kinuthia Mbugua and former senator John Munyes to his Cabinet,” said Nanok.
 He said the nomination of Yattani and Munyes for Cabinet Secretary posts and Mbugua as State House Comptroller is a clear indication of the goodwill for devolution.




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 “The leaders are champions of devolution and their appointment will deepen the relationship between national and county governments,” said Nanok.
 In Nakuru, the appointment of the former Governor Mbugua elicited mixed reactions. “This is a substantial appointment that will be greatly appreciated by the people of Nakuru whom he previously served,” said Governor Lee Kinyanjui.
 But NASA leadership insisted that the President lacked the mandate to govern, especially after he dropped 13 men and women he had worked with.
 National Assembly Minority Leader and ODM chairman John Mbadi faulted the President’s re-organisation, saying his move means his team did not perform.
 “He has sacked 13 and retained only six; how can he convince Kenyans that he can deliver on his campaign pledges?” he asked.
 Public Service Commission chair Prof Margaret Kobia also wondered why the President had not named any female leader. 
 ALSO READ:

Get the Cabinet right for Kenya to strike the right trajectory 

 “The President is a strong supporter of women issues. I hope more than a third of Cabinet appointees will be women. I am sure there are women who meet the standards,” she said.
 A section of Kajiado leaders lauded President Kenyatta for nominating their son into the Cabinet. 
 Led by Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku, the leaders said the nomination of the immediate former Director of Public Prosecution Keriako Tobiko is a big honour to the Maasai community.
 [Roselyn Obala, Kennedy Gachuhi, Mercy Kahenda and Daniel Psirmoi] 
