Stakeholders in the tourism industry are optimistic of increased tourist arrivals this year due to relative political calm.
 Most of them are hoping for better returns following last year's intense political uncertainty which preceded the elections. 
 ALSO READ:

Fifteen baboons killed every day on Northern corridor

 Chairman of the Kenya Tourism Federation Mohamed Hersi said tourism players were looking forward to building on progress made in 2017.
 "Despite the political tension in 2017, we still managed to register growth," said Hersi, who is also the CEO of Sun Africa Group of Hotels.

 


(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

 Plea to Opposition
 Hersi appealed to the Opposition to now focus on taking its fight to the confines of the National Assembly and the Senate.
 "Street demonstrations and any type of violence simply undermines the good gains we have made," Hersi said.
 And Mr Hosnain Noorani, managing director of Pride Groups, said the new year presents varied challenges with lots of hope for full tourism recovery.
 "We are optimistic of an excellent year as we seek to continue with our tourism diversification efforts. At Pride Group, our focus is to turn Mombasa into a conference hub and not just leisure alone," the MD  said.
 Noorani added that they are already working with the both the national and county governments of Mombasa in a bid to turn around the fortunes of destination Mombasa. 
 ALSO READ:

Hoteliers upbeat over festivities

 "This year will see one of our units – the Pride Inn Paradise Beach Resort and Conference Centre – play host to the World Skal Congress later in the year. Already efforts to spruce up the port city and roads leading to our resort are ongoing," he said.
 He urged the government to fast track the establishment of the Covention Bureau which will help in selling Kenya as a Meeting Incentive Conference and Exihibition (Mice ) destination of choice.
 Noorani said that apart from targeting both the domestic and regional market, the Pride Group is investing heavily in the international market, with focus on new emerging markets of Eastern Europe like the Russia and Nordic region states of Sweden, Norway and Denmark.
 The Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (Kahc) Coast branch Executive Officer Sam Ikwaye said the industry remains optimistic of growth now that election uncertainty is over.
 Political stability
 "We are looking forward to more serious and progressive involvement with the counties, especially as regards to opening up or revamping of tourism potential within the counties," he said.
 Other key aspects that need to be addressed in the new year, Ikwaye said, include the open sky policy, docking of more cruise ships at the Port of Mombasa and the prospect of realisation of direct flight from the US to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. 
 ALSO READ:

Balala to climb Mt. Kenya to promote hiking in the region

 "We will count heavily on Government support, especially the Ministry of Tourism and associated parastatals, to achieve our goals of a vibrant and upward looking sector," Ikwaye said.
 Veteran Coast hotelier and General Manager of Travellers Beach Hotel & Club Freedie Kiuru said that should political stability be maintained this new year, this would be a boom year for tourism.
 "Despite challenges we have faced as a destination, we still were able to attract visitors particularly domestic tourists who largerly travelled to the Coast using the Madaraka Express Passenger train service," Kiuru said.
 The hotelier asked the management of the Kenya Railways to consider adding a third passenger train service to help cope with increased passenger numbers.
