Several people are nursing deep cut wounds following an attack by a marauding gang of youths in Kisauni constituency, Mombasa County. Reports indicate the gang of young men invaded a funeral near Savannah hospital in Magogoni ward in Kisauni constituency, slashed and robbed mourners and robbed them before descending on other residents on a rampage that lasted hours. The wounded were treated at local hospitals. ALSO READ:

County picks women fire fighters to boost services According to Junda Ward MCA Raphael Musumba the attackers fled towards his ward as they were pursued by police. "We received reports the attackers who numbered in the dozens fled towards my ward as police closed in and we are afraid they could be hiding here and planning new attacks," the ODM MCA said adding that "many gangsters have fled police operations in other parts of Kisauni to hide in Junda and we request police to pursue them." Kisauni constituency is one of Mombasa's most violent districts and is known to host rival gangs that often attack each other, prey on local residents and extort on the local informal economy of this impoverished area. Confirming the incident yesterday, OCPD Kisauni, Mr Christopher Rotich said that police have launched investigations into the incident which happened on Saturday night at Falcon area of Mishomoroni. '' A gang armed with crude weapons terrorised residents of the area injuring some. We have launched investigations and already police are following useful leads,'' Rotich said. By yesterday afternoon there were no reports of arrests. It not not the first time marauding youth gangs are terrorising residents in the larger Kisauni area. Last year witnessed a number of attacks including revenge attacks after gang members were felled by police and mob justice. A vegetable kiosk operator, Mr Raphael Samuel received deep cuts on his arm and head after he was attacked and beaten up by a group of youthful attackers as he was cutting vegetables. ALSO READ:

Mombasa slum dwellers sue State '' They were many and they managed to subdue me . I was cut on the head and arm and had to be stitched at a local clinic,'' Samuel said. His colleague, identified as Baba Saitoti said that he was inside the kiosk when the attackers pounced on Samuel. '' I tried to come out to help and was hit severallly,'' he said . Two shopkeepers, Mama Mary and Mejumaa Faki lost valuables after the same gang forced their way into their premises which are in the same building. At Mama Mary's shop which is chemist outlet and an Mpesa shop, the attackers broke glass cabinet made away with a pay phone (for Mpesa transactions) while at Mejuma's premises, the thugs emptied the cash box and left with the loot. Mama Mary said that following the attack, they now live in fear and want security patrols to be enhanced. '' We are appealing to the government to flex its muscle and ensure that these youthful gangs are wiped out from our midst as they have continued to cause mayhem,'' Jared Odipo, a resident said. ALSO READ:

NIC expands network with four new branches