President Uhuru Kenyatta has put in place strategies to make Jubilee Party formidable to wither the vagaries of political landscape. He has identified Communist Party of China (CPC) and the African National Congress (ANC) for Jubilee Party to learn best practices. ALSO READ:

Raila blasts Jubilee over arrest of NASA leaders A clear indication of President Kenyatta’s bid to ensure a solid party was evident last week when he hosted CPC top officials at State House where they signed bilateral agreements. In one of the agreements the Sunday Standard has learned, was the training of JP officials by CPC on democracy, grassroots mobilisation and party management. Under the arrangement, China would offer 20 scholarships annually to Jubilee officials who will be identified from the dissolved parties. We want continuity CPC deputy director of policy and research Wang Xiaohui said the two parties had agreed to deepen collaboration in order to enhance party management and democracy.  “We are ready to deepen collaboration mechanisms with the Jubilee Party,” said Mr Wang. Majority leader Aden Duale said they with strengthen JP to continue with the development agenda after Kenyatta’s ends term. “Any of our opponent will have to wait a little longer, we want continuity for the country so that projects that will have been set by President Kenyatta in his final term will be finalised by his deputy when he takes over,” said Duale. Two weeks ago President Kenyatta attended ANC four-day annual conference where he sought close collaboration with Jubilee. ALSO READ:

Miguna rearrested ANC was celebrating 106 years since its historic formation and Kenyatta’s attendance according to a senior official at the party who sought anonymity, was to root for JP’s association with stronger parties globally. President Kenyatta was accompanied by Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju and vice chairman David Murathe. At the same time Kenyatta will still be the leader of JP even after his term in office ends in 2022, in what could be the strongest hint yet of his wish to ensure Mt Kenya supports his deputy William Ruto to succeed him. In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Standard, Mr Murathe revealed that the strategy was to ensure the party has a strong structure and network that brings on board all Kenyans. “We are confident that we will still form the next government, and we are therefore building our party to a big and formidable organisation, once President Kenyatta retires he will still be at the helm of the party leadership,” said Murathe. “He will remain the party leader even after 2022,” he added. Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki concurred that it was critical for the president to remain at the helm of Jubilee.”The president’s goodwill, experience and political capital accrued over the last 20 years in active politics are an asset to our party. Those expecting Jubilee to disintegrate in the wake of his retirement will be in for a rude shock,” he said. He said plans to strengthen the party for the benefit of the country is the priority of the Jubilee government. “You only need to watch out on our movements and actions.” ALSO READ:

Jubilee replaces rebel MPs One of the latest signs in bringing order and discipline in the party was evident weeks ago when Kenyatta summoned MPs to State House and asked them to change the National Assembly House leadership of the four committees. Targeted in the vote of no confidence were Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills MP), Silas Tiren (Moiben), James Gakuya (Embakasi North) who were elected chairmen of Labour and Social Welfare, Agriculture and Livestock and Broadcasting and Library committees. They were ousted from the committees leadership this week and Jubilee’s preferred candidates elected to take up the positions. The party had lined up Bura MP Ali Wario to take up the Labour Committee, Adan Haji Ali of Mandera South for Agriculture and Ijara MP Sophia Abdi Livestock and Broadcasting and Library committee. In September 2016, eleven parties including Party of National Unity (PNU), The National Alliance Party (TNA), Alliance Party of Kenya (APK), United Republican Party (URP), Republican National Congress (RNC), Narc, New Ford Kenya (NFK), Chama Cha Uma (CCU), Kanu, United Democratic Forum and Ford People were dissolved to form JP.