Tenants living in Milimani Estate in Busia woke to disturbing news of two identical twins that had been dumped outside the house of a preacher, Rebecca Oduor. The mother of the two twins could not be established immediately but police are investigating what informed the decision to abandon the male twins aged one and half years. ALSO READ:

Police impound GoK mosquito nets en-route to Uganda Ms Oduor told journalists that she was alerted by her child who was preparing to leave for school at around 5:30am that two children were outside their house. They endured cold weather throughout the night and appeared so hungry. The time they were dumped certainly by their mother could not also be established but they appeared to have been spent many hours in the cold. “I was alerted by my son who was preparing to go to school that two children were outside the house, out of curiosity I went and discovered them at my door step,” said Ms Oduor. “They were feeling very cold certainly they spent better part of the night in the cold. Why did the mother of the children do this surely? She posed. Men and women started blaming each other at the scene of the incident. While women blamed men for wooing women into sex and later dumping them, men on their part blamed women for being enticed with goodies. Jane Atieno said,” what happened is wrong but men should also be ready to shoulder responsibility whenever they arise, the woman cannot dump children she labored for nine months if the father is responsible.” John Ojiambo on his part defended men and blamed high rate of in Busia. “The vice is rife and most of these girls do it for survival. There is no excuse for whoever dumped the children. Stern action must be taken against her,” said Ojiambo. Ms Oduori later took the children to Busia Police Station and recorded the statement. Busia Police Station OCPD Masai Makau said investigation had commenced and action would be taken to the mother of the children. ALSO READ:

Otuoma in dock to defend poll case “Would first want to know the reason why she dumped the children and who sired them. If it happens that the father of the children was not responsible we may also hold him liable,” said Makau. The children would later be taken to the children's home.