A Member of Parliament (MP) affiliated to the National Super Alliance (NASA) has said that plans are underway to constitute a 'cabinet'  that will be led by Raila Odinga. National Assembly minority leader John Mbadi said on Sunday that he was waiting for a list from Raila to kick start the vetting process. ALSO READ:

Irate protesters demand release of Miguna Mbadi told President Uhuru Kenyatta that Kenya has a new leader stressing that Raila is now the people’s president. The Suba legislator further said the coalition will on Monday ensure that lawyer Miguna Miguna is freed from Lari police station in Kiambu. Mbadi added that NASA leaders will Tuesday surrender at Central Police Station to explain why they attended Raila's ‘swearing-in’. On his part, Siaya Senator James Orengo indicated they might file contempt of court suit against the Government if Miguna is not freed. Orengo said that by arresting some of its leaders, the State has declared war and they will not relent until justice is achieved, adding that he will personally represent the coalition as its lawyer on Tuesday. The NASA leaders also reiterated that they will continue boycotting Safaricom, Bidco and Brookside products, in an effort to achieve economic liberation in the country. Raila and his co-principals were consequently missing from today’s rally much to the disappointment of their supporters as they were expected to address vital issues in the coalition. The leaders spoke during a rally at Baba Dogo in Ruaraka constituency, Nairobi. ALSO READ:

Miguna suffers asthma attack  Mbadi in his own words: “Uhuru Kenyatta serekali yako iliisha jumanne iliopita. Sasa rais wa Kenya ni Raila Amolo Odinga. Tuheshimiane…awachie Raila afanye kazi. Ile kitu tunangoja ni Raila kutangaza baraza la mawaziri…na mimi kama kiongozi wa serekali ya NASA…ninangoja list ya Raila Odinga nipeleke bungeni ili tufanye vetting waanze kufanya kazi. Kazi ya Uhuru na mawaziri wake imekwisha. “Sisi tumeongea na tukakubaliana kesho ni mambo ya Miguna…generali Miguna Miguna ndio tunashughulikia maneno yake kesho, na siku ya Jumanne ni ya sisi sote tutaenda Central Police Station. “Kama serekali haiwezi kuogopa na kutii sheria…sisi kama wananchi hatuna nafasi ya serekali kama hio. Kama polisi hawawezi kutii sheria, tutatoa kiongozi wa polisi.”  Kibera residents in Nairobi demanded the release of Miguna on Sunday. ALSO READ:

Upholding the rule of law is every Kenyan's responsibility In solidarity, the residents thronged the streets asking the Government to immediately free the National Resistance Movement (NRM), self-proclaimed general, Miguna. Displaying placards, the irate protesters said they were aggrieved by the manner in which the fiery lawyer was still kept in the cells despite a court order ordering his release. Raila was ‘sworn-in’ at the Uhuru Park grounds on January 30. Holding a green Bible to his right arm and sandwiched by his former aide Miguna and Siaya Senator James Orengo, Raila recited his ‘oath of office’ before thousands of NASA supporters that thronged the recreational park. “I Raila Amolo Odinga in full realisation of the high calling to assume the office of the people’s president of the Republic of Kenya, do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to the people and the Republic of Kenya; that I will preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of Kenya, as by law established, and all other laws of the Republic as adopted by the people of Kenya; that I will protect and uphold sovereignty, integrity and dignity of the people of Kenya. So help me God.” he carefully said. Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka, however, did not attend the inauguration. Speaking shortly after taking ‘oath’, Raila said the event marks the end of electoral injustice in Kenya, adding that Kalonzo would be ‘sworn-in’ at a later date. Other NASA principals Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi were also missing as Raila ‘took oath’.  ALSO READ:

Is state's withdrawal of passports intimidation of opposition leaders?