Rwandans in Kenya thronged their embassy in Nairobi to celebrate the national heroes day observed in Rwanda and the rest of the diaspora. The colorful ceremony was officiated by Rwandan High Commissioner to Kenya Ambassador James Kimonyo, and attended by among others the high ranking Rwandan military and police officers who are on official duty in Kenya, Rwandans living in Kenya as well as friends of Rwanda. ALSO READ:

Nairobi County joins Rwandans in Umuganda cleaning exercise “This is the day we pay tribute and salute those who paid the ultimate sacrifice in service of our Nation’s highest values,” said Mr Kimonyo who saluted both living and fallen heroes who lost their lives whilst liberating the country from the tyranny of a genocidal regime. Mr. Kimonyo reflected on the days gone by where Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPA) made may peaceful overtures to have an amicable return formula from exile to no avail. “The RPA had no choice but to take up arms to liberate the nation,” reminisced the envoy while addressing his countrymen at the colorful ceremony on Limuru Road. Mr. Kimonyo implored upon the Rwandans in attendance that they were heroes in their own ways having avoided the divisive political culture that culminated into the 1994 genocide against the Tutsi that saw over a million people killed. “Today we are here to recognize the role of our gallant heroes who played a vital role to make Rwanda the progressive nation that it is today,” said a cheerful Mr Kimonyo. The peak of his speech was when he invited senior members of the Rwanda Defence force (RDF) and Rwanda National Police (RNP) who are on official duties in Kenya. “Most of these officers we see here today joined the liberation struggle in their teens and I feel real privileged to salute their selfless service to the nation of Rwanda,” said Mr. Kimonyo. The Defence Attache explained the various categories of Rwandan heroes including Imanzi, Imena and Ingenzi. ALSO READ:

Rwanda denies secret deal with Israel The envoy and other invited guests had previously joined the Hoza traditional dancers who performed various Kinyarwanda dances including Intore and Umushayayo movements. This year’s theme was “Uphold Heroism to build the Rwanda we want”