Two security guards will be tried for the murder of a Mombasa banker. Initially, the two suspects, Saidi Mwamuye Mwalungo and Hamisi Hare Karisa, had been charged with assaulting David Kamau Wokabi outside a club in Nyali estate. ALSO READ:

Mombasa banker clobbered to death by guards Mr Wokabi was injured in an altercation with the security guards outside the club on January 7. Following the incident, the banker was admitted in Aga Khan Hospital Mombasa and the two security guards were charged with assault. The banker died seven days later. After his death, police enhanced the charges facing the two suspects to murder and on January 25, they were charged with murdering Wokabi. The indictment alleges they committed the murder jointly with others not in court. A warrant of arrest has been issued for two other guards suspected to have been involved in the altercation with the banker. Police investigations The suspects were not required to plead to the charges and State prosecutor David Masila asked the court to detain them for five days to allow police to conclude investigations. Mr Masila told the court that the two suspects were arrested outside the Shanzu Law Courts, where they had been previously charged with assaulting the banker, early this week. Justice Dorah Chepkwony ordered a mental examination of the suspects before they could take a plea. ALSO READ:

Mama Ngina Girls to be moved to new site Ms Chepkwony ordered the Bamburi Police Station OCS to escort the two to the Coast General Hospital for a psychiatric examination. A report by Dr C Mwangome, a consultant psychiatrist at the hospital, stated that the accused persons were of sound mind and ready to plead to the charges. The two are expected to take a plea today. Last week, the security firm where the suspects worked released a statement claiming that the banker was violent and abusive when confronted by the guards for urinating in the open, and that he was armed. The firm built its case based on its analysis of closed circuit television camera footage of the incident.