 The National Assembly will on Thursday and Friday vet President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet Secretary nominees two weeks after they were named. ALSO READ:

Omtatah sues Uhuru over 'new, illegal' Cabinet posts While announcing the vetting dates, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on Thursday invited the public to present their petitions on the nominees in the crucial exercise. As the nominees submit themselves to public scrutiny, focus will be on their past conduct and burning questions will come up relating to their track record. Muturi will chair the Committee on Appointments. The public is expected to make submissions on the suitability of the candidates. Burning questions “We have published the names of the nominees and want to ask Kenyans to present their views in the next seven days. We will close receiving of views at 5pm on February 7,” he said. The individuals are likely to be questioned about past court cases, conduct in their previous employment and experience in discharging their duties, among others. Nominees Margaret Kobia (Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs), John Munyes (Petroleum and Mining), Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs), Farida Karoney (Lands) and Peter Munya (East African Community) will face the panel on Thursday, February 8. On the other hand, Simon Chelugui (Water and Sanitation), Rashid Achesa (Sports), Ukur Yattan (Labour) and Keriako Tobiko (Environment) will be vetted the next day. Sadly, the vetting will be seen as a formality, since the Opposition leadership has indicated it will boycott the exercise. MPs allied t the National Super Alliance (NASA) maintain they do not recognise Uhuru Kenyatta as President and cannot therefore vet his nominees. ALSO READ:

Uhuru submits names of cabinet nominees to Parliament Muturi said he had received communication from Leader of Minority John Mbadi confirming the decision. “I have written to the Speaker reiterating our position of not participating in the vetting,” said Mbadi. Muturi said they would go on with the exercise since they would not force NASA MPs to participate.