The ruling Jubilee has replaced three out of four rebel MPs in committee leadership during the repeat elections where preferred candidates were declared winners unopposed. On Thursday, Ali Wario (Bura) was elected unopposed as Labour and Social Welfare Chairperson alongside Joyce Korir as the vice-chairperson. ALSO READ:

MPs laugh off NASA's ceremony Wario replaced ousted Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter while Korir took Ford Kenya’s Catherine Wambilianga position. In the Environment Committee, Sophia Ali (Ijara) was declared winner to replace Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East). She was voted by 13 out of 15 members, who participated in the election that the National Super Alliance (NASA) boycotted over what they termed as illegality and violation of Parliament's Standing Orders. NASA MPs who were supporting Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu walked out after Jubilee brought in three none committee members to sit in for their colleagues who were absent. Parliament's Standing Orders state that a member who is outside the country on duties or is indisposed can ask a colleague to sit in for them. The three absent members were reported to be attending to sick relatives and other engagements. Majority Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali and Clerk of the National Assembly defended the decision to have the members participate in the election as their request had been approved by Speaker of National Assembly Justin Muturi. And on Tuesday, Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) was declared winner unopposed to chair Broadcasting and Library. ALSO READ:

Editors Guild condemns threats to media by Government He replaced James Gakuya (Embakasi North), who resigned from the position before members could vote him out. Today, Agriculture Committee will hold its election to replace Silas Tiren (Moiben). President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto had proposed Adan Haji (Mandera West) for the position. The four MPs went against the ruling party lineup pulled a coup against the preferred candidates to the chagrin of Uhuru who summoned members of the affected committees to call for a fresh election.