After months of blowing hot and cold over the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka has officially joined the pair in government. In a resolve laced with psalms of the two leaders, Kalonzo’s Wiper Democratic Movement yesterday agreed to close ranks with Raila and Uhuru in transforming the country. ALSO READ:

Stop attacking Wetang’ula, ODM warned The Wiper leader himself chaired the meeting of two top party organs -- the National Executive Council and the Parliamentary Group -- in passing the resolution at a time his other NASA colleague Moses Wetang’ula is falling out with Raila. The party not only declared support for the success of President Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda and anti-corruption purge but also directed party’s lawmakers to support the government agenda in Parliament. “It is now the decision of Wiper party to directly work with the President in his efforts to transform Kenya. Our Members of Parliament should stand guided by this resolution,” reads the resolution of the meeting held at Wiper House, Nairobi. The party said it had consulted with its membership and party structures.  Kalonzo has been demanding full disclosure on the handshake details between Uhuru and Raila. The position has been taken by their co-principal and Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi. The pair have never opposed the handshake but always questioned its full import. Yesterday’s meeting was the second such high stakes meeting for the party after the January one on parliamentary leadership slots. At the time, the party issued a tough statement accusing its coalition partner ODM of bulldozing everything in the alliance and taking up major leadership positions. Though details of the closed-door deliberations, which lasted hours, are still scanty, Kalonzo’s move now leaves Wetang’ula in an awkward position as he continues to oppose the handshake. “We acknowledge the political situation in the country has stabilised and therefore, total closure of the electoral season,” reads the statement. ALSO READ:

Address grey areas in Uhuru’s ban on new projects “We appreciate the wisdom and selfless leadership displayed by our two leaders, Uhuru and Raila, in putting the interests of the country first and in burying their personal political hatchet to embrace love and unity.” The party reiterated the need for a united country, particularly after the handshake, so that the country can recover. “We all know that corruption is endemic and deeply entrenched in our Nation and that it will take a united approach and bold effort to route it once and for all,” reads the statement. The leaders said the country has always been equipped to serve the needs of all Kenyans and spur economic progress, but rampart and systematic corruption has been a major hindrance to the achievement of this goal. 