Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) George Kinoti when he appeared before the National Assembly Security Committee at Continental House, Nairobi on Tuesday 20/03/18. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] Members of Parliament have told Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) boss George Kinoti (pictured) to share details of the Moi Girls’ School Nairobi rape claim findings or resign. ALSO READ:

State’s hand in MPs sugar probe standoff Members of the Education committee expressed anger after Mr Kinoti failed to respond to summons yesterday over the rape claim saga that has been dogged by contradicting reports. The committee chaired by Julius Meli (Tinderet) threatened to censure the top investigator, asserting that the matter was of great concern to parents and students. The team said teachers at the school were subjected to humiliating DNA tests and deserved to know the truth about the incident. An independent investigation by the Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) had indicated that the victim might have been assaulted by lesbian schoolmates. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Kuppet corroborated the school’s internal investigations account that concluded the student was molested by her colleagues for resisting their sexual advances. Committee member Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya) said Kinoti's appearance was intended to help shed light on the rape claims to end anxiety. “From the union side, we gave a different report and the public is anxious to know the truth,” said Mr Milemba. The committee said it was incumbent on the DCI to provide details of its probe to end the confusion. ALSO READ:

Somersault: Rift MPs now support state on Mau evictions Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Secretary General Wilson Sossion and Milemba said Kinoti should either share details of his findings or resign. “As a committee we cannot accept humiliation by State officers who do not want to be accountable to the public,” charged Mr Sossion. Mr Meli said they would give Kinoti one more chance, failing which they would censure him. He said the saga deserved to be handled seriously considering it had caused former school principal Jael Mureithi to resign and structures around the school to be destroyed. 