Security agents in Nyeri County have launched a manhunt for a gang that shot dead a chief in his home in Nyeri Town Constituency. Assistant Chief from Gitathini sub-location Peter Kimiti was shot in a farm a few feet from his home when he visited the family on his usual rounds in the village. ALSO READ:

Worshipers reject clerics accused of being gay Martin Githigaro, a resident of the area said the 6pm incident happened when four armed men walked up to the chief and opened fire on him and calmly walked away from the scene. “We heard the sound of gunshots from our houses, we didn’t know what had happened then we heard the screams and heard the chief had been shot,” He explained Residents rushed to Kamakwa shopping centre where they reported the incident to police. Locals rushed to the home where women wailed in grief while men stared blankly at the scene  Nyeri County Criminal Investigations Officer Charles Mutua confirmed that the incident occurred and explained police would carry out investigations to ascertain the people responsible for the attack. “The loss of the chief has been a great loss to residents but we (police) shall not rest until those responsible are found and brought to justice,” he noted. He asked members of the public to provide police information on the incident and support efforts to weed out criminals from the town. Leaders and residents alike condemned the killing noting it was an indication that criminals were desperate and attacking security officers in effort to instill fear in locals and police. ALSO READ:

Nyeri Church robbed of Sh 1M in daring daylight robbery Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu who visited the scene and consoled family members assisted in taking the body to the morgue. "We really must stop this madness. Together," he posted on his facebook page. Steve Nderi noted it was extremely sad to lose a man who is a father of three and a pillar in the community. “My sincere condolences to the family and I also condemn the heinous act of his killing, we must weed out these wicked armed thugs,” he said. His body was moved to Outspan Hospital mortuary.