The Tip Tip Party leader Kalembe Ndile has criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta for remaining silent over the ongoing Mau forest eviction which has left thousands homeless. Kalembe told the President that the he cannot continue keeping quiet or remain indifferent to the cries of those claiming they have been tormented in the eviction process. ALSO READ:

A 24km buffer zone is at the heart of Mau eviction crisis “I am not against forest conservation but about what the government is doing to families, to innocent children who do not why they were born in Mau. The Government cannot evict people without showing them where to go,” Ndile said. While speaking to journalist on Tuesday, the former Kibwezi MP added the President had failed to honour the pledge of offering affordable shelter to Kenyans by allowing the evictions to proceed. “We are shocked to see that President Uhuru Kenyatta has kept quiet while people who used to stay at Mau forests are being thrown out of the land without being given an alternative place to stay. This is only happening in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s last tenure in Government because during his first term the President could not allow people to be evicted. We do not want to create another IDP camp because we already have one from the 2007 post elections violence,” said Ndile. Ndile added that the government should compensate the frustrated victims of the evacuation questioning why the President does not want to resettle the families the same it did to squatters at the Waitiki farm in Mombasa.  The legislature also warned President Uhuru of being cursed if he will render the Mau forest eviction victims homeless. “If the poor families will remain homeless and suffer even when you are conserving the forest then Uhuru will live under a curse in the whole of his retirement life,” he said. He also warned of security threat in the country due to the evictions stating that most of the squatters will join terror groups due to lack of better ways. ALSO READ:

Mau evictions must go on, Senator Ledama vows