The price of Kenya Power’s shares hit a record low on Monday, as the aftershocks of a corruption scandal involving former bosses continued to be felt. The electricity distributor shed four per cent to close at a more than decade low of Sh6.05, having touched a low of Sh6 at some point. ALSO READ:

Chumo reveals net worth to parliamentary committee Last week, the firm’s board appointed several new senior managers in acting capacity for the next three months following corruption and abuse of office allegations against former bosses, including Ben Chumo, who served as the chief executive officer. The company, which returned a profit of Sh42 billion in the year ended June 2017, has lost 33.5 per cent of its share price over the last one year, amid reports of overcharging of customers, costly litigation and allegations of corruption. The directors and their companies were charged with various counts of receiving millions of shillings from the power utility company through irregular tenders for supply of labour and transport services. Takeover bids  The utility firm has had a tough year at the bourse, touching a low of Sh6.30 on June 12 and Sh6 on Monday, as compared to a high of 11.80 on August 28 last year. The decline started in December at the height of allegations of overcharging of customers. Subsequent revelations have indicated that the power distributor has been embroiled in questionable tendering and faces a Sh10 billion lawsuit by lawyer Apollo Mboya. Meanwhile, market correction saw Express Kenya and Unga Group register dips of 5.0 per cent and 4.5 per cent respectively, owing to a flop in their respective takeover bids. ALSO READ:

Uproar as Chumo vetted despite corruption charges At Express Kenya, shareholders refused to sell their stake to Hector chief executive, where less than 10 per cent of shareholders in the transport and logistics firm agreed to the buyout which was not enough to clinch the 75 per cent required margin. 16 per cent stake At Unga Group, shareholders with only 16 per cent stake agreed to the deal and Seaboard opted to take their stake to increase its shareholding to 18.9 per cent, nipping the takeover in the bud. 