SRC Nominee Ben Chumo responds to question during his vetting session before the National Assembly Finance Committee at Parliament on Monday 23/07/18. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] Former Kenya Power Chief Executive Ben Chumo lacks integrity to head the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC), a committee has said. ALSO READ:

Chumo reveals net worth to parliamentary committee The Finance Committee, which vetted Chumo, wants MPs to reject his nomination on account he does not meet the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity. Meanwhile, the Justice and Legal Affairs affirmed the nomination of Florence Kajuju as the chairperson of the Commission on Administrative Justice. The committee led by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo approved Kajuju’s nomination alongside Washington Opiyo Sati and Lucy Ndungu as members and recommended the House to approve their appointment. Reports of both committees were tabled in the House yesterday. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 In its report, the committee on Finance, chaired by Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East), wants the House to reject Chumo’s nomination, arguing he does not meet the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity. Criminal proceedings “The committee noted that the nominee did not meet the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution and the Leadership and Integrity Act by the fact that he was on July 18, 2018, charged in the anti-corruption court,” reads the report. Chumo is facing criminal proceedings in court related to economic crimes arising from his term as the chief executive officer of Kenya Power. ALSO READ:

Uproar as Chumo vetted despite corruption charges He was arraigned in court alongside 18 others, charged with abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an economic crime and failure to comply with procedures and guidelines relating to procurement. The committee says he submitted before it a certificate of good conduct dated May 15, 2018, but the Directorate of Criminal Investigations did not provide adequate information on the nominee upon request. The Cheptumo committee said Kajuju was suitable for the job because of her academic credentials, professional training and experience. 