President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto yesterday put on brave faces in the wake of growing tensions within their Jubilee Party. In Nakuru where they led mourners in burying Sarah Jerop Kasaon, wife to retiring Deputy Chief of Staff, Lieutenant General Joseph Kasaon, the two struck the image of a perfect pair united in grief. ALSO READ:

Uhuru and Raila in secret night talks The DP was the first to land at Kasaon’s Pillar Farm in Rongai as his boss detoured to pay a courtesy call on former President Daniel Moi at his Kabarak Farm. As the DP condoled with the Kasaon family, Uhuru was meeting Mr Moi and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi before proceeding to the burial. At the burial, Uhuru eulogised Ms Kasaon as a strong woman who played a major role in uplifting lives of residents through charity work and farming. Ruto and Uhuru paid tribute to her role in shaping her husband’s military career. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “The family of men and women in uniform have sacrificed a lot for the country and we recognize them. They are an important part of the our military,” the President said. “As we congratulate General Kasaon as he goes to retirement, we must also acknowledge Sarah’s contribution to the military fraternity,” said Ruto. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui also paid tribute to Sarah’s farming prowess. “Normally, we shower praises on men in uniform who have served us well over the years but forget that they come from families that are key to their lives,” Kinyanjui said. ALSO READ:

Being poor is enough to warrant a death sentence Friends and family eulogised Sarah as a philanthropist- generous to a fault especially with food, money, house and time. Her husband described her as the rock of the family. Present at the burial ceremony were Cabinet Secretaries Raychelle Omamo (Defence), Simon Chelugui (Water), Chief of Defence Forces General Samson Mwathethe, Rongai MP Raymond Moi and KDF Service commanders. General Mwathethe described Sarah as a strong but humble woman. Conveying her condolences and sympathy to the family, CS Omamo and Raymond described Sarah as an inspiration. “She was an astute business women who inspired many in Nakuru and the neighboring Baringo County where she had several businesses,” said the Rongai MP. He also delivered condolences from Mzee Moi. After the burial, Uhuru went back to Kabarak for lunch with Mzee Moi before flying back to Nairobi. His deputy flew to Murang’a where he said the union between him and Uhuru was healthy and that he had his full blessings to undertake development work. ALSO READ:

Address grey areas in Uhuru’s ban on new projects “Jubilee is one team and we are behind President Uhuru Kenyatta. I assure you that all these projects have have the blessing of the President. I am the one who makes sure that everything is going on as planned,” Ruto said. Speaking at Gaturi Primary School during a thanksgiving ceremony for Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, Ruto said he and Uhuru were working to deliver development projects they promised the public. He announced road projects worth Sh21 billion for Murang’a including an immediate rehablitation of Murang’a - Kangema Highway at a cost of Sh700 million. [Additional reporting by Boniface Gikandi] 