Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama addresses the press at Kegirigo High School on 10/08/2017 shortly after being declared the winner against his competitor Walter Nyambati who was contesting on a Jubilee party.(Photo: Sammy Omingo/Standard) Three Nyanza governors are set to know their fate as Court of Appeal delivers its verdict on petitions challenging their win in last year's election. ALSO READ:

Governor Sonko criticises colleagues Last week, Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti became the first governor to lose his seat in the region after the Court of Appeal dismissed his case. He has since challenged the decision at the Supreme Court. Governors John Nyagarama (Nyamira) and James Ongwae (Kisii) will know their fate tomorrow while their Migori counterpart Okoth Obado will know his fate on Friday. In Ongwae’s case, two voters want the court to overturn his poll victory on grounds that the election was marred with irregularities. The duo, Makari Onsando and Francis Mochoge, who were slapped with Sh5 million in costs claim High Court judge erred in law in dismissing their case. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Expunged evidence During the course of the proceedings, they told the Court of Appeal judges that the judge expunged their evidence from court records. But defence lawyers want the court to dismiss the appeal on grounds that the duo failed to prove their case. All eyes will be on Obado’s case where the petitioner, former Minister Ochillo Ayacko, has expressed his intention to withdraw the appeal. ALSO READ:

Governors fail miserably when they stand in the way of justice The former minister said his decision was based on “basic discipline and good manners” after Orange Democratic Movement party leader Raila Odinga asked them to reconcile. And Nyagarama is also hoping that the judges will rule in his favour in the appeal that was filed by Walter Nyambati. Ugenya MP Christopher Karan, whose win was nullified by the High Court, also has a second shot to save his seat, and is hoping the ruling will be in his favour. Karan lost after a successful petition by former MP David Ochieng. [Harold Odhiambo] 