National Assembly Agriculture and Trade Joint Committees Chairs Adan Haji(L) and Kanini Kega consult during their committee meeting on the contraband sugar with mercury where Government Chemist failed to appeared at Parliament on Wednesday 25/07/18. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] The Government’s hand in investigations into the alleged contraband sugar was yesterday apparent as lawmakers openly protested at being taken round in circles by State agencies. ALSO READ:

CS Rotich in trouble for snubbing MPs over sugar Signs of interference in the probe became evident when the joint team reopened evidence-taking days after the MPs had retreated to Mombasa to write the report. They reportedly disagreed on the content of the final document being prepared for the House. The MPs returned to Nairobi on Monday and yesterday sat in Parliament to gather more evidence from Government officials before running into fresh hurdles. Probe team members who retreated to Mombasa confided to The Standard that the team could not agree on who to indict, with reports that members of the secretariat were ordered to stop writing recommendations that had already been agreed on by the joint team. Powerful figures Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Yesterday, Government Chemist Ali Gakweli failed to appear before the joint team of Agriculture and Trade amid claims by some members that the officer was ordered by certain powerful figures not to appear. Mr Gakweli had allegedly arrived in Parliament to corroborate a report by the department that some of the tested samples of sugar had mercury, only for him to be ordered to withdraw. This came as MPs clashed over how to proceed with authoring the report on the suitability of sugar imports amid conflicting reports by the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs), Ministry of Health and Government Chemist. Some team members claimed deliberate efforts to delay making a decision on the matter as others suggested hiring an independent tester to conduct fresh studies on the impounded sugar to clear confusion created by the Government agencies. ALSO READ:

Treasury blamed for sugar imports And in yet another new twist that threatens to muddy the final report, Makueni MP Dan Maanzo said should the committee alter the report to suit certain interests, he would write a dissenting document. “It is a fact there is mercury in some of the impounded sugar and if they write a report saying there was no mercury, I will dissent,” Mr Maanzo said. The MPs' protest over alleged interference was kicked off by Machakos Woman Representative Joyce Kamene who claimed “we are being taken in circles and something seems not to be adding up”. “This morning we were waiting for the Government Chemist to come before us. They were here (Parliament precincts) but were later directed to go to the Interior CS’s office. There is something that is not adding up here. Kenyans want to know the truth. We were in Mombasa waiting for them but they kept taking us round,” said Ms Kamene. The team's co-chairperson, Adan Haji, joined in the protest with claims of attempts to jolt the MPs and prevent them from concluding the matter. “It should be known to any person invited to this committee that Parliament is a House of records, so it’s incumbent on any witness invited by this committee to appear. This last-minute cancellation is tantamount to derailing the work of this committee,” he said. Mr Haji said the Ministry of Interior was notorious for snubbing invitations from the committee, in apparent reference to Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i’s two-time failure to turn up when the team began its probe. ALSO READ:

Blame game rocks Uhuru cabinet over sugar, land sagas The MPs further revealed the document showing there were traces of mercury in some of the tested sugar was sneaked to the committee by an official from the Ministry of Health and not the Interior ministry, where the Government Chemist department has been moved. It is on this basis that the team invited Dr Matiang'i, Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho, Gakweli and the multi-agency team in the crackdown on contraband sugar to appear today to corroborate details of their report. It was Matiang’i who initially claimed mercury had been detected in some of the contraband sugar, assertions that were contradicted by his Trade counterpart Adan Mohammed, under whose ministry Kebs falls. A Government Chemist document shows 0.5910 parts per million (ppm) of mercury were found in sugar samples from Bungoma and 0.1151ppm in sugar impounded in Nairobi. “Some sugar samples from Nairobi and Bungoma tested positive for mercury as indicated above, hence unfit for human consumption,” read the document already tabled before the team. This contradicts Kebs, who reported to the committee that no traces of mercury had been detected in samples of impounded sugar they have tested. South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi questioned why the committee was hesitant to conclude the matter when all documents from the Government had already been tabled. “A decision must be made so that Kenyans know what is happening. We have documents from Government agencies, therefore should make a decision based on them and dispense with the matter,” said Mr Murungi. However, the committee’s co-chairperson said the Interior PS had requested the Interior ministry to appear before the team today. ALSO READ:

Chemelil Sugar to reopen after 6-month shut The committee expects to have its report complete by next Wednesday, adding that the probe period had been extended by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. 