From left: Yahya Mutali, Mathias Ochunga, Chiuli Murumba , Fredrick Mukhwana , Carolyne Malangachi Dunstan Wafula and Ben Anerico when they appeared at Kakamega high court on July, 16, 2018. [PHOTO: BENJAMIN SAKWA/STANDARD] Seven suspects implicated in the loss of Sh2.3 million have been freed on bond, but with tough conditions to ensure they turn up in court when required. ALSO READ:

Schools: Nakuru Day eye rugby Sevens title The Bungoma county government employees were freed yesterday after spending two weeks in police cells. Senior Principal Magistrate Thomas Muraguri ordered the suspects, who were arrested on July 11, not to go to their former offices unless they are escorted by police officers. They were also ordered not to get in touch with employees of the county government who are witnesses in their cases. The suspects are also required to report to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations Officer offices every two weeks until their case is determined. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “The accused are further ordered to deposit their travel passports in court and avoid foreign trips without authority of the court," said Muraguri. The magistrate ordered the accused to deposit cash bail and comprehensive valuation reports of their sureties. Economic offences The suspects include the County Secretary Chuli Murumba and Director of Human Resource Mathias Wanyela, who were charged with conspiracy to commit economic offences, fraudulent acquisition of public property and making false documents. ALSO READ:

Ensure fairness in arrest and bail processes in fight against corruption The others are accountants Dunstan Wafula, Yahya Mutali, Fredrick Mukhwana, Carolyn Malangachi and Ben Arenico. They allegedly misappropriated public funds amounting to Sh2,360,000 million on diverse dates between September 13, 2016 and December 23, 2016. “Having considered that the seven are charged on different counts, they are handed different bond and bail terms. However, they are all directed to provide valuation reports for their sureties,” said the magistrate. Mukhwana, Murumba and Anerico were granted Sh800,000 bond with same sureties and additional cash bail of  Sh100,000.