When these pupils perform their fascinating and entertaining dance moves, it is hard to believe they cannot hear the drum beats to which they dance. Their hearing and speech impairment has not stopped the pupils of Ngala School for the Deaf from scooping awards in the Kenya National Music Festivals every year. ALSO READ:

Lobby demands new board for disability agency And when they perform the Scottish and Chinese ribbon dances, the audience is usually left astonished and asking for more. In the Scottish dance, the couple dancers trace progressive patterns depending on the speed of the music. In the Chinese Ribbon Dance, the couple dancers hold two ribbons that get entangled at the centre with those of other couples. As they dance, they follow patterns that set them free. “We are always given a slot during entertainment at Afraha Stadium where the children warm up the hearts of the residents with their performances. People are always astonished how they manage to perform the complicated moves,” says their teacher Hellen Atieno. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 And with the 2018 National School Festivals slated for August 6 in Nyeri County fast approaching, the pupils are currently engaged in tireless preparations for the much awaited competition. Ms Atieno has been teaching the deaf for the past nine years and she says the children are interesting to interact with. “They never see their impairment. When there is a goal to chase they don’t give up. Their spirit is always strong, which often makes them perform beyond the expectations of people endowed with all senses,” she says. Since 2010, the school in Nakuru County has never missed awards in the national competitions. The most memorable year was 2014 when they emerged the best in two categories, giving them an opportunity to perform in the Gala Festival. ALSO READ:

Kenya can do better to improve lives of people with disability The Gala Festival includes performances by at least 10 of the best groups picked from the national festivals. Though there are no trophies at this level, the group whose presentation emerges the best gets an opportunity to perform in State House. “However, reaching that level is a milestone that we celebrate to this day. This year we are hoping for the best outcomes,” says Ms Atieno. Training But unknown to viewers is the effort put into the dance training until the children get well acquainted with the moves without stepping on each other’s toes, so to speak. Ms Atieno plays the role of the more than 10 pairs of ears for the team during training. She starts by playing the music on a radio set and masters the moves herself. She then demonstrates the dance as the team keenly observes every detail. ALSO READ:

Jubilee MP goes after randy men “As a teacher, it may be challenging to dance before your pupils but in this case there’s no choice. With time they internalise the dance and perform without me being among them,” she says. She takes at least a month in the dancing team after which she withdraws and only guides the pupils using signs. It takes another two months for them to perfect the dance when the teacher only beckons them at the start of the music and at the end. Ms Atieno says teaching them becomes easier when there is one pupil with residual hearing. The pupil can then guide the rest in the absence of the teacher. 