Member of Parliament representing persons with disability has petitioned the 47 counties to establish corrective surgery units to curb preventive disabilities that contribute over 15 percent of the country’s disabilities. Nominated MP David ole Sankok (Jubilee) who spoke when he commissioned corrective surgery unit at Kijabe Mission hospital said absence of corrective surgeries in the country was increasing chances of children being disabled. ALSO READ:

Why inclusion of PWDs is central to success of Big Four “As we know there are disabilities that are caused due to correctable disabilities like clump feet, bended knees. If one continues with such deformities, it will be hard to correct them at old age that is why we need such facilities like never before,” said the legislator. Mr Sankok however said for a long time the government have invested billions of shillings in supporting the disabilities that could have been prevented. “We use millions to give them tax exemption, duty free for vehicles, education. National Council for Persons with Disability (NCPWD) alone receives over Sh2Billion to support the disabled. Such budget could be reduced if we invest in corrective surgery,” said the MP. He said the Care International who built the corrective surgery at Kijabe has done over 40,000 corrective surgeries thus saving them from being clients of disability. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The MP who served as the Chairman of the NCPWD before being nominated to parliament said the corrective surgery saved his life and improved his life as a physically challenged person. “Personally, I am a testimony of the Kijabe hospital having been operated there almost 30 years ago. The surgery though did not completely turned by leg normal, it enabled me to walk albeit using crutches,” said Sankok. Sankok who is a medic by profession has however asked parents with children with various deformities to take them for surgery the earliest time possible so as to get assistance and make them lead normal lives. “Since the Health department is a devolved unit, I want to challenge the governors to set aside budget to establish disability corrective units in at least one major hospitals in their counties to assist in preventing possible disability cases,” said Sankok. ALSO READ:

Lobby demands new board for disability agency The legislator cited a story of a child who had bended knee and after the surgery several years later, he led a normal life and is now playing rugby. Mr Sankok has however hailed Jubilee administration led by Deputy President William Ruto who graced the event for tireless support to the persons with disabilities. “DP Ruto has been a friend of the disabled for several years now. We see him every day attending events of the disabled and we thank him for the support,” said the MP. 