This is a short piece about numbers. Just how much are we losing to the runaway train of corruption? Just how much is Uhuru reining back through his policies? What are the numbers which have been dominating our recent history, and what numbers will dictate our future. Let’s have a little bit of context. Our Sh3 trillion budget for 2018/2019 is the largest in our history. It represents an increase of 10 per cent from the previous financial year. This is bold, and to some extent brave. ALSO READ:

Dozens killed in suicide attacks According to my reading, it won’t be entirely balanced, but it will be focused on the crucial growth Uhuru needs to achieve his Big Four dream. Approximately 50 per cent of the budget, about Sh1.74 trillion will be raised via taxation and various other fees. While another Sh558 billion is to be derived from a borrowing binge, both local and foreign. Low interest rates and lengthy grace periods are the saviours which enable sustainable long term growth without endangering the economy. Let’s not forget that the president has some seriously ambitious goals to achieve. These don’t come for free. 500,000 houses, universal healthcare, a revamped manufacturing sector and food for all. A vision which requires discipline and dollars. With a Robin Hood tax in place on large bank transfers and on the purchase of luxury items, the new administration must not allow any seepage.It will need every shilling it can get its hands on to complete this ambitious plan. Patently clear  The big four, are in fact massive, and require a truly national effort.When looking at the numbers behind the scandals over the last few years, it is patently clear why Uhuru’s anti-corruption drive is being conducted in parallel with the big four plan. Eurobond scandal: Sh250 billion. Kenya Pipeline Company scandal: Sh70 billion. JKIA runway construction scandal: Sh56 billion. NYS: at least Sh10 billion.  CCTV saga: Sh15 billion. And the list goes on and on. Some believe that up to 1/3 of the annual budget is lost to seepage/wastage; aka corruption. So what is being done?  First of all Uhuru is leading by example. He has called for personal audits to be conducted for all senior officials, including himself and his deputy, William Ruto.  But the numbers are also starting to speak volumes, and this is really just the beginning. ALSO READ:

Treasury blamed for sugar imports Public Service CS Margaret Kobia has put a hold on the processing and payment of Sh5.9 billion worth of bills at the National Youth Service. The whole agency is being turned upside down. No more skimming off the top. Billionscoming back to the nation’s coffers.More than Sh8 billion shillings is said to have been lost in the NYS scandal. As part of Uhuru’s new fight, 54 NYS officialshave been arrested and charged. Real numbers. Real money. Real action. Then there is the Kenya Power scandal. According to Reuters, a trusted international news wire, “The prosecutor’s office said some of the charges arose from a 2012 contract involving Kenya Power and Muwa Trading which led to the loss of $3.1 million for the supply of transformers, most of which the prosecutor said were faulty.” Publicity stunt This is in the range of Sh300 million; no small figure. Reuters went on to note that in addition to the CEO, “the Directorate of Criminal Investigations has arrested 11 other Kenya Power managers and former managers including Ben Chumo, former Kenya Power chief executive officer.” This is not therefore a one-offfering for show and tell, or a pathetic publicity stunt. These are, once again, real numbers telling of real action. One governor. Three county executives. Sh8 millioncorruption scandal. Sh1 million bail. This is the sleazystory in numbers of Busia Governor, Sospeter Ojaamong. He is certainly no small fish, and the president and his DPP knew that this would not be a popular decision. But this is not a popularity contest. This is war. War against graft. One voice: This is how the embarrassed governors responded. They want immunity, they apparently think they should be above the law. Reports are surfacing that there are at least three more governors who are soon to be charged. Others are shaking in their boots. ALSO READ:

Blame game rocks Uhuru cabinet over sugar, land sagas The post handshake political reality is one of real unity in the face of corruption. Unity against theft. Unity for progress.  From now on the only number we should all be talking about is zero.  Zero wastage.  And Zero tolerance for corruption. Mr Kinyita is an economist 