Police have arrested one suspect after a massive fire destroyed property worth millions in Kisumu’s Jua Kali yesterday morning. The fire destroyed 19 vehicles and several spare parts shops. ALSO READ:

KRA disowns employee accused of illegally acquiring Sh615m wealth Witnesses said the fire started in a building housing a garage and a motor vehicle spare parts shops before spreading. Kisumu Central OCPD Meshack Kiptum said the suspect is a landlord who had disagreed with tenants. The police boss said the suspect had been threatening his tenants over unpaid rent with unspecified consequences. Spread fast Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Most of the vehicles destroyed were in a garage awaiting repairs. Yesterday, owners of the motor vehicles and spare parts dealers said they had incurred losses worth millions of shillings. Witnesses said the fire which started shortly after midnight spread fast, fuelled by the petrol in some of the vehicles. Shop owners who rushed to the scene watched helplessly as their property was reduced to twisted metals. ALSO READ:

Man charged with robbing police officer out on bond Jack Obiero, a watchman in the area, said he and fellow watchmen raised the alarm as soon as they realised the building was on fire. At the motor vehicle spare parts shop, Pratik Raja, who has been running the business for over 35 years in the building, said that he lost goods and property worth over Sh30 million. “My watchman called me some minutes past midnight to tell me there was fire, I drove to the scene but could not access the shop due to smoke. I stood aside and watched my investment go up in flames,” he said. He said the fire started at a garage in the same building before it spread to his shop through ventilation ducts. At the garage, vehicle owners stared in disbelief at what was left of their cars. The vehicles, that included high end car, had been brought in for repairs. The garage owner, Panesar Singh, was lost for words. ALSO READ:

Carjacking attempt ends in a ditch Kisumu County fire brigade arrived at the scene nearly one hour after the fire broke out. The building was still smouldering by mid-morning as police kept watch to keep looters at bay.