The Senate committee investigating Solai dam tragedy has asked the Ministry of Water and Sanitation to decommission two dams at Patel farm, saying they were illegally constructed. The committee’s report says Milmet and Tindress dams are located on the higher reaches of Solai Farm and have blocked stream flows. ALSO READ:

Solai tragedy: Matiang'i orders probe on victims' coercion allegations The committee chaired by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr has also recommended restoration of flow of Watkins stream and Tinderess River that had been blocked by owners of Patel farm. The report says the farm owner was not granted a permit to construct a dam in Watkins stream. “The owner of Milmet dam knowingly and unlawfully constructed Milmet dam by blocking Watkins stream since 2004, on the basis of a permit for a weir contrary to the provisions of the Water Act,” reads the report. The dam collapsed on May 9, killing 47 people.  The committee says blocking of water bodies is criminal and recommends that those responsible, including government officials, be punished. The legislators note that in the report presented by Water CS Simon Chelugui dated 2004, the owner of Milmet dam had completely blocked the natural course way of Watkins stream, denying the residents downstream the water. The committee ask the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) to conduct further investigations and prosecute Milmet dam owners. The report says the Managing Director of Kensalt Limited and Patel Coffee Estates Limited, Perry Mansukh, made vague statements when he appeared before the committee. Mansukh refused to disclose crucial information about construction, licensing and operation of Milmet dam in a bid to mislead the committee, says the report. “Mansukh did not deny liability for the collapse of Milmet dam resulting in the loss of life, damage to property, the environment and livelihoods,” says the report. ALSO READ:

I'm also a victim, Solai killer dam owner tells senators The Senate also asked Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to immediately suspend Nakuru County Commissioner Joshua Nkanatha, Rongai Deputy County Commissioner Justus Kavita and Solai Chief Charles Kiragu.