Senator Susan Kihika has accused Governor Lee Kinyanjui of misplaced priorities after the county boss bought two buses to help schools that lack their own means of transport. In what appears to be a renewal of the rivalry between the two leaders, Ms Kihika said there were more pressing needs than buying buses for schools. ALSO READ:

Who will get Nakuru County out of the rut? "The buses are not a priority in a county that has a myriad challenges residents wanted addressed when they elected us. The governor erred," said the senator. "The executive agreed to buy the buses in total disregard of the wishes of the people. The county government is insensitive to the needs of the people," she added. “We are yet to address the problems faced by our ECD centres, which are our responsibility, yet we appear keen to solve problems that fall under the national government.” County headquarters Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. While unveiling the buses at the county headquarters last week, Mr Kinyanjui defended the decision, saying the buses would come in handy for schools that did not have their own means of transport. "There are schools that want to buy buses yet they do not have laboratories, classrooms or libraries. Those schools can now use the county courtesy buses to attend sports, festivals or any other events and focus on establishing these important facilities," he said. Towards last year's General Election, the two Jubilee Party leaders engaged in a supremacy battle that threatened to destabilise the ruling party in the region. Both enjoy voter support in the county and were overwhelming elected in the August 8 election. ALSO READ:

Kinyanjui: Divisions in Jubilee threatening Uhuru’s big four agenda The fall-out between Kinyanjui and Kihika worsened over the recruitment of senior county government officials following reports that the senator wanted to control a section of the county executive. Kihaka reportedly demanded to be allowed to make appointments to some senior positions but Kinyanjui stood his ground. The governor carried the day when he appointed all 10 of his ministers and chief officers despite resistance from a county assembly he felt was being controlled by Kihika. The May 9 Solai dam tragedy that left 48 residents dead and hundreds displaced further widened the rift between the two leaders. While Kihika has been pushing for justice for the victims through the arrest of Perry Patel, the owner of the dam, as well as several government officials, Kinyanjui has dismissed the findings of a Senate special committee probing the tragedy, saying the report was of no importance to the victims. “It passes as a classic example of a wasted opportunity to unlock a very serious tragedy. The Senate team had little time to listen to those invited to shed light on the matter. One is tempted to conclude the committee had a set mind from the onset,” Kinyanjui said. Kihika was instrumental in the setting up of the special committee to investigate the cause of the tragedy after successfully moving a motion in the Senate to set up the probe team. She said justice for the victims would be important for closure. ALSO READ:

County begins to pay its suppliers The discord has caught the attention of other leaders, who want Kihika and Kinyanjui to find a way to work together. Misplaced priorities "Now they are at each other's neck. You have Kihika who is accusing Kinyanjui of misplaced priorities yet a section of voters have criticised her on social media over her attacks... And Kinyanjui who says the senator is meddling. As the two senior-most leaders in the county, they must put their political differences aside and work for the sake of voters,”  said Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama. Although Kinyanjui has been reluctant to respond directly to Kihika’s attacks, his handlers and supporters claim Kihika has begun early campaigns for the governorship ahead of the 2022 General Election. “This has nothing to do with priorities or the buses. The senator is eyeing the governor's seat in 2022 and she has not wasted time in attacking the governor to try and discredit him early,” a senior county government official who did not want to be named told The Standard yesterday.