Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has castigated National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale’s calls on legislators to be ruthless with Dr Sarah Serem when she undergoes vetting for an ambassadorship position. Speaking at a fundraiser at Bishop Gatimu Ngandu Girls in Nyeri County, Kuria told off Duale and said it was up to the committee on appointments to vet Ms Serem fairly. ALSO READ:

How Moses Kuria was welcomed in Kisumu (photos) “Victimising Dr Serem for doing her job will set a bad precedent for the National Assembly. As a Jubilee MP I support the President’s appointment and she should know she is safe to come to the assembly,” he noted. Kuria called on his colleagues to recognise the difference between the executive and the legislature and stop involving the Deputy President William Ruto’s name in all matter. “Dr Serem is an appointee of the President Uhuru Kenyatta and by extension his Deputy so the office of the presidency is separate from the legislature and Parliament should conduct its business in an independent manner,” He warned. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, also called on the vetting committee not to victimise Ms Serem for having carried out her duties as the chairperson of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “She should not feel intimidated to come for vetting a the assembly the August house is a House of Reason. Besides as the president’s nominee she should get the full support of the Jubilee MPs,” he said. Kuria also told off the Judiciary on its calls for budget review citing reduced funds allocated for its functions. “The Judiciary is reaping where it sowed, they kicked out efforts by Kenya Revenue Authority to collect taxes on several occasions, therefore where did they expect the funds to come from,” he stated. Other leaders at the fundraiser were Kandara MP Alice Wahome and Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga. ALSO READ:

Ruto allies under fire over attacks