 Hundred graduates from Bukura Technical College will undergo incubation training for one year after which they will be given capital to set up agribusinesses. Each student will be sponsored to a tune of Sh50,000. ALSO READ:

How imported eggs will ruin Big 4 agenda The college principal, Richard Wekesa, said the institution is credited with producing reliable personnel in, among other areas, agricultural education, agribusiness, animal production, food science and technology as well as extension services. “The Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri promised to give scholarship to 50 students in incubation training and another 50 for training in artificial insemination. This will help bridge the unemployment gap,” he said. The three-year programme will see the graduates get loans, start their own companies and create employment through agricultural production. He asked the graduates to take advantage through innovation and ensure that Kenya achieves 100 per cent of food and nutrition security by 2022. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Deputy Governor Philip Kutima said the county is implementing the 2014 taskforce reports in education and agriculture sector that recommended massive restructuring of the sectors. He said agricultural technical training, research and innovation are critical to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, a major one of which is zero hunger for all which is also echoed in the Kenya Vision 2030 and the Big 4 Agenda. “We are implementing the recommendations given to help us improve food production by working closely with national government,” he said adding that the County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP) was aligned to the national government’s Big Four agenda to avoid duplication of projects,” Kutima said. He said Bukura College has played a big role in development of Kakamega by producing middle level graduates expected to spur economy. ALSO READ:

Queries over Sh333m maize earnings “We have partnered with Bukura Training College in setting up smart dairy farm at the institution to improve milk production in the county,” he said. 