NAIROBI, KENYA: The Ministry of Infrastructure has failed to account for Sh2 billion as retention fund citing that the documents were taken for investigation by the anti-corruption agency. Infrastructure PS Julius Korir told the National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC) that they could not properly answer accounts related to the audit queries of 2012-13 financial years. ALSO READ:

Why regulation on cyberspace is long overdue In his submissions before the Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) led committee, Korir said that the debit balances reflected in 2011-12 statement of Sh 2.1 billion differed with the Sh 10.2 billion shown in the Ministry’s Trial Balance by Sh 8.1 billion. “Accounting documents in support of retention funds in respect of the financial years were released to EACC for investigations,” Korir told the committee. The Auditor had raised queries that the issues of the trial balances as at June 30, 2013h had remained unresolved. Interestingly the committee was further told that computers and related equipment were delivered to the Ministry but five days later were stolen before they could be inspected.  Korir confirmed that Intermass Technologies supplied Computer servers, desktop computers, laptops and integrated service routers at Sh 25 million which were purchased for Mechanical and Transport Fund disappeared before they could be inspected. “I wish to state that the goods were received in the morning of November 19, 2013 in our warehouse stores. However on the weekend of November 24 the same year there was a break in on the stores where the computers were kept and the goods were stolen,” tabled Korir. Asked if any person has been charged with the theft of the computers, Korir said that one of the Security guards was arrested and charged while other accomplices remain at large. “From the CCTV footage it was apparent the guards from the contracted Security Firm facilitated the whole theft by opening the gates for the criminals to enter with a station wagon vehicle and later a lorry. According to the DCI, they have not been able to apprehend the others,” said Korir. ALSO READ:

'Smoking hot' Pacquiao, 39, rolls back years to knock out Matthysse Mavoko MP Patrick Makau however said that the theft looked like an in-house job, adding that the equipment have serial numbers that leave a foot-print and by now tbhe Ministry should have reclaimed the lost items. “This is pure theft aided by the Ministry officials. You can’t tell the committee here that goods are delivered on a Friday and the next Saturday they are stolen. These are equipment that leaves a trail,” said Makau. Nambale MP Sakwa Bunyasi also questioned why the Ministry has taken long beforer recovering the stolen goods.