MCAs have rejected governor Charity Ngilu’s appointees to the Municipal Board. On Friday, the MCAs voted against nominations of Musyimi Mbathi, Baddy Muhsin, Stanley Kiima, Simon Muoko and Linda Kimoli, saying the list was not representative. ALSO READ:

Jubilee allied MCAs de-whipped They said appointees did not represent the entire municipality, which includes Kitui Township, Kyangwithya East, Kyangwithya West, Matinyani, Nzambani and Mulango wards. Paul Nguli, Geoffrey Mwalimu and James Munuve, who are the Migwani, Ikutha and Kanziku MCAs respectively, opposed the list, arguing that it did not only lack regional balance, but that the nominees were also too old. County Assembly Majority Leader Peter Kilonzo, while tabling the list, described Ngilu’s nominees as overqualified and up to the task. “I urge honourable members seated here to consider the nominees who, according to me, are bringing on board a broad knowledge and experience coupled with the necessary talent to steer the municipality forward. Some of them have qualifications to work with international organisations such as the United Nations,” said Kilonzo, of Wiper Party. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The functions of the board include overseeing affairs of the municipality. It will also develop and adopt policies, plans, strategies and programmes, and may set targets for delivery of services. It also formulates and implements an integrated development plan, controls land use, sub-division and development, among other functions. During the heated debate at a session chaired by temporary Speaker David Thuvi, the MCAs accused Ngilu of taking the county assembly for granted. Majority Whip Stephen Musili said: The list goes against the spirit and letter of the Constitution. There is no regional balance.” ALSO READ:

MCAs in trouble over tablets, lounge plan Vacancy arises Nguli said: “It is unfortunate that whenever a vacancy arises, it is grabbed by retirees. I urge this House to stamp its authority and take the list back to the sender.” Kanziku MCA James Munuve said some of the six wards that make up the municipality were not represented in the governor’s list. Some sources accused MCAs of trying to arm-twist Ngilu for selfish gains.