 Local leaders have warned ODM politicians against embarrassing senator Moses Wetang’ula. ALSO READ:

DP Ruto's night visit to Kisumu Speaking in Bungoma, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa told ODM lawmakers to cease attacking the Ford-K leader. According to Wamalwa, it was wrong for the ODM leaders to continue hurling all manner of insults at Wetang’ula simply because the senator does not subscribe to their political ideologies. “I call on my brother Wetang’ula ignore the detractors and join hands with us in Jubilee,” said Wamalwa. He said they were prepared to receive and work with Wetang’ula in serving the people of Western region and by extension all Kenyans. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “Let nobody belittle Wetang’ula, he deserves respect and we shall not take it lightly when some people continue attacking him,” said the CS. Mr Barasa said the ODM politicians castigating Wetang’ula lack the moral authority in doing so. “It is high time Wetang’ula pulled out of NASA once and for all, it is unfortunate to see individuals in ODM belittle him,” argued the lawmaker. The leaders were referring to calls on Wetang’ula to leave NASA and have Ford-K legislators relinquish parliamentary positions. ALSO READ:

ODM picks Ayacko for Migori seat ODM chairman John Mbadi and Suna East MP Junet Mohammed insists that the senator was free to withdraw Ford-K from the coalition. Speculations are rife that Wetang’ula could be warming up to Deputy President William Ruto particularly after the Ford Kenya’s boss recent truce with Mr Wamalwa at Mabanga Farmers Training College in Bungoma. But Wetang’ula has sought to clarify that Ford-K is still a coalition partner in NASA despite his earlier remarks that the coalition was on its deathbed. The senator together with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi are expected to endorse a report by a taskforce formed to craft a merger between their parties. Former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale who co-chaired the taskforce together with ANC Secretary General Barrack Muluka said the report was handed over to the two leaders. “All eyes are on the two leaders, immediately they endorse it, we shall embark on implementation stage of the planned merger,” said Khalwale. After reconciling with Wetang’ula last week, Wamalwa said he would reach out to Mr Mudavadi and other local politicians in the spirit of luhya unity. ALSO READ:

Kalonzo seeks to unite Raila, Wetangula