There is an old Kenyan saying that goes; “Sticks in a Bundle are Unbreakable.” It means the more sticks there are in a bundle, the greater strength it has and the harder it is to break. One of Kenya’s greatest strengths has always, in turn, also been one of its greatest weaknesses, its diversity. Our ethnic, tribal and religious differences are all part of the mosaic which makes up our beautiful nation and when our nation has pulled in the same direction we have achieved huge feats. ALSO READ:

Judiciary budget cuts blow to anti-graft war Together, we stood firm in unison to fight off colonialism and foreign rule, and together we ended one party rule and brought greater freedom and democracy to our republic. Today, our greatest struggle is one which remained with us even as we ended colonialism and embraced multi-party democracy. The plague of corruption is now upon us. Corruption is a disease that has mutated depending on the circumstance and has clung on in our society regardless of who rules and in what fashion. It is sadly very durable and flexible, and is our greatest enemy. However, for the first time, perhaps in our history, the current Kenyan leadership is getting serious about tackling corruption. This is nothing less than a gargantuan task ahead, but in President Uhuru Kenyatta, it is clear that this has become his mission and the legacy he wishes to leave behind. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Nonetheless, for President Kenyatta to succeed he must do the almost impossible task of embracing and bringing in Kenyans from all backgrounds under one umbrella, to work in earnest together to fight this greatest of all afflictions which stunts our growth and progress. Only last year, ODM leader Raila Odinga was enemy number one for the President. He was using all measures, some fair, many foul, to end the rule of the Jubilee Party. The animosity between the two, their parties and their supporters was frequently violent. One year later, and President Kenyatta knows that for him to succeed he needs Raila and his supporters. The President could probably go a long way on his own and receive much credit and many plaudits, but it appears that his goals go far beyond self-aggrandisement and he is serious about combating corruption. So, Uhuru did something that took a lot of wisdom, guts and wisdom and reached across the aisle to bring Raila in. ALSO READ:

Chief arrested over Sh100,000 bribe When President Kenyatta reached out and embraced Raila at the National Prayer Breakfast at Safari Park hotel in May, he broke the ice and Kenyans saw the type of unity that has eluded us for far too long. Even the Government of National Unity, the “grand coalition cabinet,” was largely forced on the parties and the unity always felt largely bureaucratic, rather than heartfelt. If this unity feels different, it is because it has a unified sense of purpose, the ending of corruption. President Kenyatta and Raila established the 14-member Building Bridges initiative comprising Adams Oloo, Agnes Kavindu, Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Saeed Mwanguni, James Matundura, Major John Seii, Bishop  Lawi Imathiu,  Maison Leshomo, Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Morompi ole Ronkai, Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Moseu, Archbishop Zecheus Okot to operationalise their reconciliation. These Kenyans are from all walks of life and backgrounds and with the support of President Kenyatta and Raila, their strength will be in their diversity. Already, this group is working with a strong common purpose, one that its principles gave it, to end corruption through unity. I am certainly optimistic that President Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila’s war on corruption is not just another clichéd talking point but a real and concerted effort to rid our society of its most resilient plague. When President Kenyatta saw the challenge before him, he knew there was only one path to success and that was by joining hands and unifying Kenyan leaders. ALSO READ:

Awaiting Uhuru next big move He foresaw that the more sticks that he added to the bundle, the more unbreakable it would be, and we are certainly going to need this strength and will in the months and years ahead. - The writer is former Kangema MP