Kitui County Assembly Elijah Mutambuki has come out to deny accusations by a section of Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) that he had banked money meant for their car loans and mortgages at a fixed account, thus compromising their welfare. In statement issued to the media on Friday, Mutambuki who has been at loggerheads with the MCAs termed the allegations as wild and malicious, saying that the members had been able to access their car loans and mortgage without hitches. ALSO READ:

Gritty Kathungi out to maintain status quo The clerk noted that since their election, the MCAs had so far received a total of Sh131 million as car loans and mortgage. “As at July 9, 2018, the total loan portfolio disbursed to members is Sh131, 667,000, of this Sh75, 252, 000 has been disbursed to 35 MCAs as car loans while 19 other members have received Sh56, 415,000 as mortgage,” Mutambuki said. He added that another Sh10 million was lying in Family Bank account, Kitui Branch awaiting disbursement. A section of the MCAs who have already written to the County Assembly Service Board to sack the clerk over what they call gross misconduct had claimed in sections of the media that the clerk had compromised their welfare by banking their funds in a fixed bank account to accrue interest for his benefit. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Mutambuki said that a committee to oversee the second assembly’s car loan and mortgage fund was constituted on October 2017 after which Sh142 million was handed over to the committee to facilitate the MCAs welfare. He noted that at no time had any member of the second county assembly been denied access to these funds. He claimed that a number of the MCAs were out to tarnish his name and that of the The clerk however told The Standard that he had not been summoned by the board to answer to the accusations levelled against him by the MCAs. “I am aware they have written to the board, once I am summoned I will present my case there because I have nothing to hide,” Mutambuki said. ALSO READ:

Coal mining in Mui to start as politics ebbs off 