Kenyan and Ugandan fishermen have resolved to end perennial disputes on Lake Victoria boundaries. On Thursday, a meeting that brought together Beach Management Units (BMUs) officials from the two countries, made eight resolutions that take effect immediately. ALSO READ:

Family cries foul over death of kin The Kenyan delegation was led by BMU officials from Siaya, Homabay and Busia Counties while the Ugandan side was represented by Fisheries Protectorate Unit Commandant Joseph Ssebukeera and several fisheries officers. Mr Ssebukeera said that a previous meeting that was held in Busia last month resolved that fishermen from the two countries should form an association to resolve minor conflicts. “This was just a follow up meeting on some of the resolutions that were made during our meeting in Busia. We resolved that commanders from both Kenya and Uganda shall have regular meetings to address emerging issues,” said Mr Ssebukeera. On extortion claims, the meeting said all complaints regarding taxes should be addressed to Uganda Revenue Authority. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Kenyan fishermen have regularly accused Ugandan security personnel of seeking bribes and conducting arbitrary arrests. The meeting also called for observance of good fishing practices and payment of taxes. Fishermen were warned against spreading propaganda. Mr Ssebukeera promised to ensure all issues on corruption are investigated and action taken against officers found culpable. The fishermen were told to ensure all boats have acquired number plates and that the fishing nets are also branded for easy identification. ALSO READ:

Family wants justice for victim of assault “Registration of boats is an on-going activity by the two national governments, in partnership with various counties. It's a legal requirement. Only licensed boats are allowed to operate on the lake,” he said. He added that one will be required to pay Sh 53,000 to get a fishing license that will allow any fisherman to operate in the Ugandan waters. “We are issuing new number plates but our Kenyan counterparts have been given some time to comply,” said the officer adding that the license will be renewed annually. He said the registration will help in combating poor fishing practices, since the boat owners will be called in case their boats have a problem. According to Homa Bay County BMU Networking Chairman Mr Edward Oremo, they have agreed to comply with the set or rules and regulations guarding the fisheries in the two countries. “We have agreed to have a joint patrol in the lake, with any incident reported to the relevant authorities,” said Oremo adding that the resolutions will be communicated to the fishing community. ALSO READ:

Revealed: How Kenya handed its islands to Uganda