The war on corruption can be won, and there is a fresh wind blowing across the country to prove that. Sceptics can second-guess this, but there are institutional changes going on that give hope that in the long term corruption shall be tamed. What gives hope to Kenyans is that there are several crucial changes going on, albeit unnoticed. It is generally understood that the public expects drastic and quick fix actions on the issue of graft. ALSO READ:

EFP challenges Governor Roba to seize MCAs goodwill to fight graft But this requires soberness. Measures should be put in place to gauge if progress is being made. Notably, two very important developments are taking place on this front. A week ago Chief Justice Maraga gazetted the operationalisation of the anti-corruption court to be domiciled at a high court in Nairobi. According to Gazette notice 7262 published last week, the Chief Justice directed that henceforth all new cases of corruption be registered in Nairobi at a centralised registry for monitoring and expediting their completion. One of the major obstacles to successful completion of anti-corruption cases is lack of monitoring to give the CJ a good overview so that those that delay can be fast-tracked.  Very crucial A centralised registry makes this easier. Remember the fight against corruption, in as much as it should be steered by all arms of the Government, the most important institution is the justice department. Both the Chief Justice and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) are crucial. With Justice Maraga and DPP Noordin Haji at the helm, the public is regaining confidence in the ability of the Government to fight corruption. Government officials have taken cognisance of the current crusade against corruption. My discussions with a number of senior Government officials have shown that people are now more concerned and want to shield themselves. ALSO READ:

Dozens killed in suicide attacks Another significant institutional change is Kenya becoming a signatory to the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM). The National Treasury is driving this process to inculcate a sense of responsibility and good governance. County governments have not been left behind in this endeavour. Recently the Council of Governors asked county governments to sign into the County Peer Review Mechanism in order to increase open governance and encourage good practices. County governments are also developing instruments of open governance. For example, the county government of Laikipia is planning to launch an open data portal where all development indicators shall be captured. This will also help to plan development projects from an informed point of view. Last week while attending a performance contract signing ceremony in Isiolo County, I heard Governor Mohamed Kuti announce that a billboard shall be erected in the middle of Isiolo town where all procurements, employments and other development activities shall be beamed live for the residents to see what was going on. Such initiatives will make it easier for Kenyans to track the activities of the Government. Welcome development The recent sustained and continued exposure of corruption cases through the media, including the irregular importation of sugar and the scandal in the Ministry of Education regarding the Ruaraka Primary School land, are, of course, a welcome development since the more cases of malpractice are exposed the better for the country. That might act as a deterrent. ALSO READ:

Treasury blamed for sugar imports In Kenya, however, such publicity, if not well prosecuted, might look like the story in African folklore where a boy shouted “Wolf! Wolf!” and people who responded to his call of distress found that the boy was just being naughty. When eventually the wolf appeared, the boy's shouting did not bring the villagers to his rescue. The current exposures will suffer the same fate if the institutions mandated to prosecute this cases keep shouting wolf. Unfortunately, just when the Chief Justice started to establish a central registry for corruption cases, the National Treasury decided to cut the Judiciary's budget. This shall no doubt be retrogressive. To fight corruption, institutions mandated to arrest this vice must be empowered. Mr Guleid is a governance consultant and the chairman, FCDC Secretariat. guleid@fcdc.or.ke 