Former Nyandarua Governor Daniel Waithaka Mwangi and two senior officers who served in his government were yesterday arraigned in a Nakuru court over graft charges involving Sh50 million tender. Mr Waithaka, former Nyandarua County Executive Member for Water, Energy and Environment Grace Wanjiru Gitonga and Kihiu Gichinga appeared before Chief Margistrate Josphat Kalo. ALSO READ:

Awaiting Uhuru next big move Four other suspects, John Ngigi, Jesse Wachira, Chen Yochanan, Albert Attias and the contracted company Tahal Consulting Engineers Limited did not appear in court. The former governor and Ms Wanjiru are jointly facing four counts. In the first count, they are accused of failing to comply with the Public Procurement and Disposal Act 2006 by procuring the services of M/s Tahal Consulting Engineers without a procurement plan for the financial year 2013/2014. In the second count, they are accused of engaging in a project without prior planning. The third count read that the two jointly and willfully used direct procurement method to procure the services of the co-accused contractor without obtaining prior written consent and reasons of the Nyandarua County Government’s Tender Committee. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. They are further accused of abuse of office and failure to comply with procurement procedure in the issuance of the Sh50 million tender. Waithaka and Wanjiri denied the four charges before Chief Magistrate Josphat Kalo. Mr Gichinga who is still working in the county department for Water, Energy and Environment is facing two counts of failing to comply with the law relating to management of public funds and abuse of office. Mr Gichinga pleaded not guilty to the two charges. ALSO READ:

EACC seizes ex-governor over tender Representing the Director of Public Prosecutions, Victor Owiti sought to have the three suspects remain in custody citing the seriousness of the offence. Lawyer Hassan Nyakundi for the former Governor and Wanjiru, and lawyer Kariko Mwangi for Gichinga urged the court to dismiss the application arguing that their clients were not a flight risk. The Chief Magistrate granted the accused Sh10 million bond with surety of a similar amount and ordered the file to be taken back to Nyahururu Law Courts where the bond is to be processed. 