Names are not cast in stone and it is possible to change them. You may need services of a lawyer to effect the desired change through the use of a legal document called a deed poll. With a deed poll, you can change your forenames and/or surname, add names, remove names or rearrange your existing names. ALSO READ:

Court: Mistrust in marriage is enough to call it quits There are a few rules; 1. You can change your name at any time and for any reason provided it is not to deceive or defraud or to avoid an obligation. 2. If a married person makes an application for a change of name, then their spouse has to give consent to the proposed change of name. 3. For a separated person, a certificate from an advocate that s/he is living separate from their spouse is required. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. 4. If the applicant is divorced then their certificate of marriage or evidence of marriage together with decree absolute or certificate of divorce will be required, to facilitate the change of name. Once all the legal requirements are concluded, the deed poll is registered at the Principal Registry in Nairobi or the Coast Registry for Coast province only. The registrar shall after registration advertised in the Kenya Gazette as a notification to the public of the change of name. The registrar may refuse to accept a change of name, if; ALSO READ:

'Come we stay' is proof of marriage, court rules 1. The change is impossible to pronounce 2. Includes numbers, symbols or punctuation marks 3. Chosen names are vulgar, offensive or blasphemous. 4. Other names that can be rejected are those that promote criminal activities, racial or religious hatred or use of controlled drugs. 5. Other names that cannot be registered are those that ridicule people, groups, Government departments, companies or organisations. 6. Names that may result in belief that you have a conferred or inherited honour, title, rank or academic award, for example, a change of first name to Sir, Lord, Lady, Prince, Princess, viscount, Baron, Baroness, General, Captain, Professor or Doctor. ALSO READ:

Elders smear cheating lovers with dung, cane and fine them