NASA Leaders led by Minority Leader John Mbadi addressing the media at Parliament on Wednesday 25/07/18 over the recent Moses Wetangula's remark on Party Leader Raila Odinga. [Boniface Okendo,Standard] National Super Alliance (NASA) legislators have cautioned Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula against linking Opposition chief Raila Odinga to his ouster as Senate minority leader. ALSO READ:

Raila for Nobel Peace Prize? They termed his sustained attacks on Raila unwarranted. Subsequently, the legislators have issued a 48-hour notice to all Ford-Kenya leaders holding House positions to dissociate themselves with Wetang'ula’s claims or face the coalition’s wrath. Led by National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi (Suba South), Minority Whip Junet Mohammed (Suna East) and Senate Deputy Minority Leader Cleophas Malala (Kakamega), the leaders faulted Wetang'ula for allegedly using any forum available to disparage and undermine Raila. “Senator Wetang'ula's leadership was rejected by colleagues. He threatened that the divorce was going to be messy, noisy and chaotic. Let me ask Kenyans, did you hear any noise or see chaos? This is a classic example of someone talking to himself,” said Mr Junet. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He scoffed at claims by Wetang'ula that the latter was a principal when he could not secure even a vote from the 29 senators to defend his seat. Very annoyed Mr Mbadi dismissed allegation by Wetang'ula that Raila was not a team player. “We know Wetang'ula is very annoyed after he lost the (Senate) minority leader’s seat. He is throwing tantrums. He should accept and move on. He is a person on the path of emotional destruction by the day,” said Mbadi. Speaking at Parliament Buildings, with a number of MPs from Wetang'ula’s backyard, the leaders said the senator should be the last person to talk about betrayal. ALSO READ:

Act fast to stop country from taking path to destruction ”If Wetang'ula leaves NASA, the Western region will remain intact. NASA is an idea, not individual which decides whether it exits or not," said Malala. Malala made reference to leaders like Edwin Sifuna (ODM secretary), Godfrey Osotsi (nominated), Justus Kizito (Shinyalu) and Raphael Wanjala (Budalang'i), who, he said, still carried the NASA mantle. He laughed off recent handshake between Wetang'ula and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa as synonymous with a "marriage of two men that cannot bear children". Mr Wanjala, Senator Beatrice Kwamboka (nominated) and Mr Osotsi dared Wetang'ula to leave NASA. Osotsi accused Wetang'ula of not being a team player and claimed he was opposed to the formation of NASA and inclusion of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. “He fought the formation. Raila had to talk to him before he could agree. Now he is pretending to be more NASA than us,” said the MP. Wetang'ula has lately accused three "prominent" Kenyan families of monopolising the country’s leadership. During an interview with a local TV station on Tuesday night, Wetang'ula was asked why he chose to exit NASA, to which he responded: “Certain communities think that leadership should oscillate and rotate around them. Everyone knows that there are families; the Mois, Odingas and Kenyattas, who must be at the centre of everything. There are some of us capable of running this country”. ALSO READ:

2022: Jubilee, ODM leaders clash over Raila’s fate His remarks follow a pronouncement he made in Machakos last week that the coalition, of which his party is a member, was moribund. 