An Indian firm contracted by the Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs) to supply secure import standardisation mark stickers and stamps has denied reports of engaging in shoddy work leading to the proliferation of fake products in the market. Madras Security Printers now says fake standardisation strickers allegedly being used in the market did not originate from them. ALSO READ:

Kebs to test imports in the sea Reacting to reports of a scheme by unscrupulous traders to evade quality checks by Kebs, the firm maintained stickers it manufactures are in line with tender specifications. In a press statement yesterday, the company said it is ready to work with investigative agencies to identify perpetrators of copied marks. "All Import Standardisation Marks (ISM) are made as per the specifications in the tender. Fakes may be present in the market but they do not originate from us. Consumers should authenticate the overt security features on the marks,” said Madras Senior Manager Ramachandran Natarajan. "We fully deny the allegations." The firm maintained it had provided additional security features on product stickers above the tender requirements and that the source of the fake stickers should be investigated and prompt action taken. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Three weeks ago, Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji ordered for the arrest of nine directors of the firm as investigations intensified over alleged unfit standardisation marks. “In our opinion, rather than target the genuine manufacturer, the DCI and DPP should focus on identifying the perpetrators of the fake marks. The real culprits are roaming free,” said Madras. Kebs floated the stickers tender in January 2015. Madras Security Printers Private, Systemedia Technologies, Sintel Security Printers Solutions, Pinnacore Printers, SICPA Security Solutions SA and De La Rue were the bidders. ALSO READ:

Long day for KEBS managers accused of attempted murder