LAIKIPIA, KENYA: Centum Investments Chief Executive James Mworia says he will give up his salary to support needy students if appointed Laikipia County Development Authority chairman. Mworia who spoke during his vetting, by the county assembly on Tuesday, said: "I am determined to serve the county in this capacity and sacrificing my salary to help the poor would give me great fulfilment." ALSO READ:

Governor unveils plan to woo more investors He added: “Whatever the county pays for that position, I will give it to scholarships to help the students who cannot get school fees.” Mworia, who was declared the highest paid CEO in Kenya last September, said he would also use his experience in the corporate world to attract investors. Mworia is and has served in senior positions in different corporate organisations including Sidian bank, Almasi beverages limited, Nairobi bottlers limited, Lewa wildlife conservation and Kirera Holdings. He is currently the chancellor of Machakos University and the brainchild for the multi-million Maiyan Hotel in Nanyuki. Tasked to advise the county government on the appropriate policies laws and plans necessary for county development, Mworia said he would ensure investors are not delayed due to bureaucratic processes for their investment plans are approved. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. He pointed out agriculture and real estate as the key areas that are unexploited adding that investors within and outside the country could be interested in. “We will need to join hands in eliminating all the barriers like insecurity that hinder large capital investors from coming to Laikipia,” said Mworia. Mworia was nominated together with Borana Ranch Manager Michael Dyer, Educationist, Mr Margaret Lesuuda, Johnson Weru, Faith Waigwa and a Joseph Ngugi. The board is also tasked to source local and international resources required for promoting county development. ALSO READ:

Centum’s Sh100 billion new gem in Vipingo