 Local e-commerce industry player Avechi is keen to leverage on delivery delays experienced by most online shoppers in Kenya by offering a new convenient and reliable 3-4 hours super-fast delivery. ALSO READ:

Investors bet on smartphone penetration to grow e-commerce Studies indicate that online shopping is gaining massive traction in Kenya thanks to increased internet usage. Smartphones have played a significant role as well since they are no longer a luxury but a necessity. Kenyans have taken to ordering products online like a duck to water but have been disadvantaged by a variety of factors. Key among these is slow delivery and high shipping costs The 3-4 hours same day delivery is a rare feat that will revolutionize the shopping experience in the country. For the uninitiated, Avechi has been around, originally operating as a physical shop before morphing into a thriving online shopping destination, especially for smartphones. The fast-rising online retailer has a unique selection of gadgets which are considerably offered at the most competitive prices in the market. Mention a brand like Oneplus, Xiaomi or Cubot and what springs in your mind is Avechi. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. The e-commerce firm started out by selling smartphones and their accessories online. Later on, electronics such as TVs, Audio, Home Appliances and Computers/laptops were introduced before further venturing into fashion items and furniture products.  There are different types of shipping modes offered by the firm: Avechi Express Introduced as a remedy to delayed delivery and has been quite enthralling for most clients.  Local shipping applies to products from local vendors. Delivery is done in a record 3-4 hours despite all the logistics involved! Avechi uses local delivery service Sekunde for this quick delivery A client in Nairobi can order for a smartphone, TV online which will be delivered in 3 to 4 hours. Guaranteed! For other regions it takes at most 24 hours. Moving forward, waiting time will be less. Payment is done via popular mobile methods like Mpesa, Airtel Money and Equitel. Payment is made after delivery Avechi Bulk Shipping This applies to all bulky items comprising furniture, cookers, fridges, washing machines, home theaters and others. This shipping is applied across the country. Delivery time is 24hrs or less Avechi Global Shipping Did you know you can now purchase unique products form international sellers that are not available locally hassle-free? Avechi, offers short delivery times spans for products sourced from international sellers within 7-14 days only. Worry less about costs like shipping as they have incorporated in the overall price of the product. Other delivery Destinations covered The company delivers in all the 47 counties of Kenya. Other than Nairobi, delivery takes about 24 hours for other counties at least for now. Clients in Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, South Sudan and Somalia are among the pioneer beneficiaries of delivery services outside Kenya. Plans are being mooted to expand further to other African countries.