Do you have a VPN on your smartphone? And what about your laptop? PC? Tablet? Do you have a VPN installed at least on one of those devices? In the 21st century, the importance of having a VPN is no more a question to discuss. If you want to have a better Internet experience, you need a VPN. If you want to be sure your data is secure online, you need to have a VPN. If you don't want your traffic to be spied, you need a VPN. And we're not talking about the mysterious best VPN service ever, which costs a fortune or something like that. What we mean is a basic tool to hide everything you store online from other people on the network. ALSO READ:

How firms reinvent smartphone camera with artificial intelligence driven photography As you have already understood, we encourage you to install a VPN on all the devices you have – a smartphone, a tablet, a PC, and a laptop. Yes, even your home computer requires a VPN for an extra level of data security. In case you're not sure all of your gadgets require this level of security, get a VPN at least for the device, which you use most of all. Probably, that is a smartphone. But let us explain why having a VPN on one gadget only is the least you can do and why even your home PC requires this kind of connection. A VPN stands for virtual private network. Thus, it is a piece of software, which creates a personal network for every user. In other words, it is a transitioning tunnel for your traffic. While going through a VPN, your traffic becomes encrypted (coded) and unreachable for any other person in the same network. For example, imagine browsing the Net while being in the airport, where hundreds of different people share the same public network. Maybe some of those people are hackers, trying to steal someone else's sensitive data – passwords, nicknames, information about banking operations, etc. For home usage, a VPN is needed to prevent your Internet service provider from monitoring and selling your home traffic. You can't be sure that a provider doesn't gather this kind of information for marketing goals. The easiest solution is to pick a VPN on Bestvpnrating.com accordingly to your system requirements and personal preferences and be sure that both your traffic and any sensitive data are completely safe.  So, let us remind you the main reasons to get a virtual private service: No matter how often you connect to public networks or how much you use the Internet, you need a VPN in any case.