Laikipia Women Representative Catherine Waruguru caused a scene at a Kericho Hotel after she was denied accommodation over lack of marriage certificate. Sunshine Upperhill hotel revoked Waruguru and her husband room reservation after they failed to produce a marriage certificate. ALSO READ:

Governor asks court to strike out appeal, uphold win The hotel located opposite Kericho’s Moi Gardens, has a strict rule requiring couples to produce marriage certificate before they can be accommodated. But Waruguru who on Saturday was in Kericho to visit her father-in-law and other members of the extended family, couldn’t hear any of it. “I checked at the hotel at 4PM and filled the registration card which I indicated my name and my husband’s name and was given room 402,” she said. The Laikipia Women Rep added that after dinner at her in-laws, and her husband came back to the hotel around 9PM only to get a rude shock after they were denied entry to their room allegedly because they had not produced a marriage certificate. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The legislator who had since caught a cold due to the cold Kericho weather left the hotel in a huff at 11PM. “My odd innocent question before Kenyans is that where in the Constitution or County Government Act states and reads that any female or male who may wish to spend a night in any given room in any hotel must produce a marriage certificate,” she said. Waruguru, stated that the incident had embarrassed her as a leader and would raise the issue of alleged harassment in Parliament. “We will not allow any more married women and men to suffer embarrassment in the hand of hospitality industry players who feel that someone cannot spend money for a room and spend it there in a dignified way until they produce a marriage certificate,” she said. ALSO READ:

Governor unveils plan to woo more investors When contacted for comment, the hotel manager Frank Kirui said they would issue a comprehensive statement in due time. “Let me consult the hotel director James Mwangi first then we will issue a comprehensive statement over the issue,” he said. However, Waruguru parliamentary colleague Nelson Koech (MP) who had tried to intervene in the matter expressed dismay over the hotel cold reception. “Can you imagine being helpless to a colleague in your own town. I really felt bad for her,” said Koech.