 “And as Samuel turned around to go away, Saul seized the edge of his robe and it tore. ALSO READ:

Uhuru team goes for Ruto's top man So Samuel said to him, “the Lord has torn the Kingdom of Israel from you today, and has given it to a neighbour of yours who is better than you.” 1 Samuel 15:27-28. Could the current political scenario in Kenya involving Deputy President William Ruto be likened to the one in the old kingdom of Israel? The signs are crystal clear. What would one make of President Uhuru Kenyatta's assertion that his deputy ‘anatangatanga', or when Ruto makes a visit to Kabarak and he is denied access to his would-be host? Or when Uhuru and Raila have handshake in his absence? These signs maybe clear indicators that the DP may fall sooner than later. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. His utterances and the outbursts of his lieutenants may be the major catalysts that could lead to his imminent fall. This is because they angrily and emotionally respond to every perceived attack or Government directive which seem not to favour them. Anger and emotional response to any situations, more so competitive political environment such as ours is the greatest barrier to power. Emotions dim vision and reason. It has a ripple effect that invariably make the situations less controllable as Robert Greene would put it. This would intensify the resolve of his enemies to curtail and vanquish him completely. ALSO READ:

Silent wars split Jubilee No wonder CS Charles Keter, a DP ally, snapped after the arrest of Kenya Power employees over scam on transformers. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has also gone off-mark by inciting Mau evictees to stay put despite Government directive to have all squatters moved out of the water tower. These two angry retorts from Ruto allies and earlier ones directed at the person of the President and his family will not only accelerate DP’s downfall but also lead to his likely total political subjugation. It would seem that those advising the DP have not read Robert Greene’s book titled 'The 48 Laws of Power'. The first law simply says ‘never outshine the master. Always make those above you feel comfortably superior and be careful when trying to please or impress them not to go too far in displaying your talents or you might accomplish the opposite - inspire fear and insecurity’. And this could be the greatest political sin Ruto has committed ever since his ascendancy to the top seat in 2013.