John Bosco Ochieng with fellow class eight pupils during a lesson at Bridge International Academies located Jasho Mingi area in Nakuru County. [PHOTO: NANJINIA WAMUSWA/STANDARD] At 10am, the English lesson is on in Standard Eight at Bridge International Academies located at Jasho Mingi in Nakuru County. ALSO READ:

Kenya Railways to name land grabbers Nina Wangare, a teacher, moves back and forth as she checks the progress of the assignment she gave out. The class is lively. In 10 minutes, all the pupils, save for John Bosco Ochieng', have completed and raised their hands for the teacher to mark their work. Bosco has a physical challenge and therefore uses a wheelchair. For this reason, he is never stable when sitting on a desk. His teacher says Bosco takes more time in everything he does. “Because of his disability, for an assignment that takes 20 minutes, we give him 30 or 40 minutes. For composition, instead of normal 40 minutes, we give him 70 minutes,” explains the teacher. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Despite the challenge, reveals the teacher, Bosco is one of the bright pupils on whom the school is banking on to score more than 400 marks in KCPE examinations later this year. Bosco 15, wants to join Alliance High School and dreams of becoming a pilot. “I have a challenge with time, but I'm working to improve on my speed. I want to achieve my dreams,” he revealed, adding that he has never scored less than 300 marks. Bosco loves the school, terming it home. ALSO READ:

Governor: We need your help, not grilling He says his parents are casual labourers and at times are late to pick him in the evening, or leave very early before he is ready for school. In the morning, when this writer visited, Bosco had been picked by colleagues. Jackline Walumbe, the Bridge International Academies spokesperson, says the school recognises Sustainable Development Goal (SDG4) on inclusive and equitable quality education and promotion of lifelong learning opportunities for all. She says the school admits children with disabilities and if there are challenges they cannot handle, they refer are referred to special schools. Meanwhile, as Bosco enjoys the school environment, Irene Kerubo is yet to secure employment more than seven years after training. “I took a diploma in computerised secretarial studies at Mwangaza College, but l am yet to get employed. I apply for jobs and get called for interviews. Sadly, once they know about my disability, that becomes the end of the story,” says the widow and mother of three. Irene, 32, was born alright, but suffered polio at four. She uses a wheelchair. ALSO READ:

Indebtedness to China raises questions about Kenya's sovereignty And as the UK Department for International Development (UK DFID), International Disability Alliance and Government of Kenya hosted the first ever global Disability Summit in London yesterday, Irene and Bosco hope it will result in the addressing of some of their challenges. At the summit, discussions focused on raising global attention on neglected areas in disability, mobilising new global and national commitments on disability and showcasing best practices and evidence from across the world. With the principle of ‘Nothing about us, without us’, the summit wants to ensure people with disabilities are central to the planning and delivery of the event. Former chairman of NCPWD and now nominated MP David ole Sankok said it was a great day for Kenya to learn and improve on challenges facing persons with disabilities.  