The family of former IEBC ICT Director Chris Msando previews some of the portraits of the deceased at Lifunga village in Siaya county on July 25th 2018.One year down the line, they are still demanding justice for the late. [Photo: Collins Oduor, Standard] The family of slain electoral commission ICT manager Chris Msando has raised concerns over the slow pace of investigations into his death. ALSO READ:

Maraga affected by budget cut, says projects to stall Yesterday, relatives said they were almost losing hope of getting justice for their loved one. A memorial mass will be held  to mark a year since his brutal murder. Those who spoke to The Standard said they were yet to get over his death, just days before last year's General Election, held on August 8. "The pain of losing Chris has increased as we prepare for his memorial service. Even the villagers are still mourning," said his cousin, Boniface Ouma. Msando's widow, Eva Buyu, did not speak to The Standard. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. In her tribute during his burial on August 19, Ms Buyu said: “His killers might be on the run but will not hide forever. It is just a matter of time before they are caught.” Some family members accused the Government of dragging its feet in conducting investigations. They accused his employer, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, of failing to prevent his death. "Msando was kind and social. We always had a good time whenever he came home," said Ouma. Angelina Juma, Msando’s step-mother, said: “It would have been better to sack him, if they felt he was standing in their way, but not kill him." ALSO READ:

Verdict on beauty queen should offend us Msando's mother, Maria Oloo, was taken to Nairobi last Friday after falling ill. According to relatives, her health has deteriorated since her son died. Juma said her co-wife loved all her children, but Chris was her favourite. “When he worked with International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology in Mbita and the National Aids Control Council, he frequently visited home. He took good care of his mother,” said Juma from their home in Ugenya, Siaya County. The family feels the arrest of four people, including a 12-year girl over the murder, was meant to hoodwink them. Reports from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations show the investigations could take up to five years. “Nearly a year ago, they told us it could take up to five years. We feel investigations have lost steam and Chris’ murder may never be resolved,” said the late official's elder brother Peter Msando. Msando was 45 when he was killed. ALSO READ:

Why Justice Lesiit sent Kamande to the gallows 