A multi-millionaire Lottery winner has showcased his impressive range of cars after winning the jackpot 17 years ago. The 62-year-old now has a car for every day of the week after winning £15.5 million [Sh 1.55B] with his wife back in 2001. ALSO READ:

Kenya is slowly becoming a sports betting empire Tom Naylor owns six super cars, and a car he does the shopping in, Birmingham Live reports. He has built six garages for his luxury cars, and hires a man to wash them regularly. Before his big win Tom was a lorry driver and owned a Ford Granada Mark 2 - with a dream of one day owning a supercar. Tom, who was originally from Wednesbury but now lives in a luxury home in South Staffs, said: "I do love my cars and winning such a large amount of money has enabled me to indulge my passion.  "The first car was a Jaguar XJR which I bought 17 years ago when I first won the lottery. I still have that car now. Over the years I have bought more and more cars. Now I have one for every day of the week." He added: "If I was doing it myself I would be spending all day washing them. There is a guy who I trust to clean the cars and he spends hours on each one. They look immaculate by the time he has finished with them." This is Tom's impressive car collection: Monday's car: Mustang V8 ALSO READ:

Lucky winner scoops £121million jackpot Tom: "The roar when you start the engine on this Mustang is just incredible. It is a lot of fun - so fast and fierce." Estimated Value: £45,000 Tuesday's car: Jaguar XJR Tom: "This was the first car I bought after wining the lottery. It is my wife Rita's favourite car. She can't drive so I chauffeur around in it. It was one of the first cars I bought and is 17 years old now. I bought it for £150,000 at the time from a multi- millionaire in London who owned a shoe shop empire. It is so smooth and a lovely car to drive. Estimated Value: £150,000 Wednesday's car: Jaguar XJ220 Tom: "I once saw one of these cars when I was out driving my lorry. I said to Rita 'one day I will own one of those.' And my dream has come true. It is a very rare limited edition. There were only 270 made world wide. It is my favourite car. With a top speed of 214mph it is basically a racing car." ALSO READ:

Zlatan Ibrahimovic facing World Cup ban over links with betting company Estimated Value: £500,000 Thursday’s car: Jaguar F-Type convertible Tom: "This is my sunny day car and fantastic when it's a hot summer's day. We pull the roof down and just go for a lovely drive. It is one of my favourites." Estimated Value: £55,000 Friday's car: Aston Martin DB9 - Bond Edition Tom: "I got invited by Aston Martin to buy this car. This car was a limited edition one made to coincide with the launch of the Spectre James Bond film. Only 150 were made and mine was number 76. When I bought it there was a suitcase in the back and when I opened it up there was another case. Inside was an Omega watch with 76 signed on it. I am a big James Bond fan and I just love it." Estimated Value: £170,000 Saturday's car: Aston Martin DB9 Tom: "This was my first DB9. Even though she can't drive Rita loves this car as everything inside the car was to her spec. She picked absolutely everything from the colours to the roof lining. It was the first DB9 I bought. ALSO READ:

Online Gambling in Kenya: A Basic Guide Tom: "I call this the shopping trolley. It is a workhorse and I use it for everything including gardening, shopping, furniture removal you name it. Landrover Discovery's are great and I wouldn't be without it." Estimated Value: £30,000 A National Lottery spokesman said: "Tom's dreams have come true owning a car for every day of the week. We will make our 5,000th milestone millionaire in May and that lucky person could be you. As you can see with Tom winning the Lotto, it is life changing."