Bodies of men killed in a suspected terror attack on Thursday were Friday airlifted to Nairobi, two days after President Uhuru tabled a report citing terrorism as greatest threat to security. The bodies of John Macharia, Francis Kaibei, Zacharia Kanyi and Peter Kamau arrived in Nairobi in a flight that had Cliff Osoro and David Wahome, who survived the attack in Shimbir Fatuma, Mandera. ALSO READ:

Focus on what stands to be achieved after the handshake “They were killed at the quarry and we are pursuing the attackers,” Mohamud Saleh, North Eastern Regional Commander said. The attack shows terrorism remains a major threat to the country’s security. Last year, 80 incidents were recorded, resulting in 82 deaths and 118 serious injuries. The government has also identified 105 organised criminal gangs across the country in the same period. A detailed report, tabled by President Uhuru Kenyatta during his State of the Nation address at a joint Parliamentary sitting on Wednesday, also cited cyber-crime, money laundering, human trafficking, smuggling and influx of refugees -- now at 488,000 -- mainly from Somalia, Ethiopia and South Sudan at Dadaab and Kakuma refugee camps and urban areas. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Porous border The President attributed the security challenges to the country’s proximity to Somalia and strategic position in the fight against global terrorism and Western interest. “In order to win the war against terror, all citizens are encouraged to continue sharing information with security agencies in confidence,” appealed the President. He said security agents have been deployed countrywide to detect and disrupt terror threats. The report identifies Al Shabaab and the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (Isis) as two organisations that have heightened hostile operations in the region. ALSO READ:

MPs in mass handshakes as Uhuru apologises “These activities are geared towards undermining Kenya’s economic development, inter faith harmony, social cohesion and political stability, particularly in parts of North Eastern and coastal regions,” the report notes. The country has witnessed attacks mainly in Lamu, Mandera and Wajir counties, which resulted in the death of a Principle Secretary last year. President Kenyatta said recruitment and radicalisation of youth into the terror groups through internet platforms and the use of returnees (sleeper cells) to perpetrate attacks in the country is of serious concern. The report indicates that criminal gangs such as Wakali Wao, Wakali Kwanza, the Marine and China Boys and Sabaot Land Defence Forces (SLDF) still engage in extortions, muggings, control of bus termini and drug peddling in Nairobi. The report, which was co-authored by 27 government agencies among them ministries, departments and parastatals, warns that the rising use of computer applications has increasingly exposed Kenyans and organisations to cyber threats and cyber related crimes. Hate speech “These threats range from hacking of technical infrastructure, fraud espionage, cyber bullying, stalking, cyber terrorism, identity theft, malicious software, hate speech and incitement through social media, theft of information and piracy,” reads the report. ALSO READ:

Uhuru: Forgive me, let us make Kenya better “The dynamic nature of technology and lack of adequate cybercrime legislation amidst thriving growth of sector make the country a susceptible target to local and international cyber threats.” The report reveals that 76,000 refugees have been voluntarily repatriated while another 23,000 have been resettled in third countries. robala@standardmedia.co.ke