The other day, I watched in disbelief as alleged goons descended on Nairobi Central Business District Association chairman Timothy Muriuki, who was holding a presser. They roughed him up and threw him out of a Nairobi hotel. Then, dramatically, they followed him out there and beat him up till he ran for dear life. It was simply blood, sweat and tears. When my 10-year-old son, who was also watching this traumatic scene, asked me what the victim had done to warrant such manhandling and roughness, I was lost for words, albeit temporarily. In my mind, I knew that the culture in which politicians use youth to win and maintain political office is what is ailing us. ALSO READ:

Leaders eulogise courageous Matiba I cannot even remember what explanation I offered to my son, but I must have explained that the parties were wrangling over something. Sad. The tragedy of our time and country is that we have allowed money politics to be the order of the day in our political culture. Money is simply something and everything in Kenya. This has made the spread of political violence and thuggery, which is its twin cousin, to pitch tent here too. The resultant situation is a culture of political intolerance among the youth on behalf of political leaders, a situation which is not sustainable. Interactions  My 15 years of experience with the youth tells me that with minimal education, skills or opportunities for employment, they, now than ever before, are acutely disadvantaged. Subsequently, the relegation of the youth to the background and subsequent exploitation of their situation is widespread, as this favors incumbent leaders who utilize such opportunities to buy the youth into unwholesome activities. This explains why, in the counties and at national levels in various settings, goons are used to further political interests or attack rivals. That is why some have already opined that to be a great politician in Kenya you cannot afford to be a gentleman, because that would be the easiest way to kill a political career. Therefore, hooliganism has now become an important aspect in our politics, a prerequisite in winning and maintaining political office. ALSO READ:

Family yet to speak on Matiba’s burial site These are the kind of scenes we are treated to every other day when we have political gatherings. From MCAs to MPs, senators, governors and even the presidency, the trend is all the same: goons wreak havoc and heckle or stone opponents in gatherings. Clearly, what initially started as a reaction to grievance has turned into a business geared to self-enrichment and profit maximisation. Granted that out of deep frustrations and poverty, the youth in their large number become vulnerable to the whelms and caprices of politicians who resort to violence and other unjustifiable means to actualising their objectives. We all know that the level of poverty among youth is so intimidating that the most innocent youth may give it a thought if circumstances brought the opportunity of participating in violence their way. Intimidation The prevalent pattern in our political culture is that of political intolerance and it engenders political violence and encourages political thuggery. The youth are tools for realising such. An army of thugs who intimidate political opponents, and play other key roles in ensuring the wishes of the godfather are almost law. These type of politicians, in the counties and nationally, have invested in youth and politics to yield profits. Hired goons and hecklers are now part of our political culture. In a political power game, an army of thugs that works in various capacities to actualise the purpose of the politicians is all you need. This has made democracy to be synonymous with political violence, group domination, and the germinating ground for corruption. With all the bad signs, are we really moving to stem the tide? The truth is, youth challenges have always been a part of any society. It is how a society deals with the issues that dictate its trajectory. ALSO READ:

Kihoro: Matiba ate my pawpaws in jail Unfortunately, the way our political class is dealing with the youth issues is good ground for violence and radicalisation. It is indeed making thuggery a regular business among the youth and, by extension, the merchants of death. Even then, that our youth have agreed to be recruited and misused to mete out violence and anarchy is a frightening indictment of the state of Kenya. Why law enforcement agencies, including the police, Office of the DPP, National Cohesion and Integration Commission and others, who ought to be alert to arrest the situation do not do what is expected of them is disheartening. Unchecked, youth will become the hindrance to the positive future prospects of democracy. We must work and fix this now. The youth must be involved in curing it. There are no two ways about it. Prof. Mogambi is a Development communication and social change expert.