The thin, delicate skin around the eyes is notorious for being one of the earliest age betrayers. If you’re unlucky, you can even start developing the much hated crow’s feet (wrinkles around the eyes) in your 30s.
Dermatologists say that while you can adequately moisturise the rest of your facial skin with your usual moisturiser, the area around the eyes calls for some extra TLC. The skin around the eyes is thinner and has numerous tiny muscles- both of which make it particularly prone to issues like puffiness, discolouration, fine lines and premature wrinkling. Additionally, there are fewer oil glands around your eyes to keep the skin naturally hydrated- which makes it necessary to provide more moisture by using eye creams or serums. Aren’t eye creams and serums just like your usual moisturiser but in smaller, fancier packaging? No. Many eye creams and serums are specially formulated to target the delicate skin around the eyes. They therefore tend to have more oil and active ingredients to treat and prevent common problems affecting that area. Serum or cream?
Are you confused about which is which? The main distinction between the two is in their consistency- creams are more viscous while serums are more gel-like. Serums are more easily absorbed into the skin, which makes it the more preferable of the two. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Young women (20s and 30s) can start using eye creams for preventative reasons while older women are advised to go for serums to fix already damaged skin. That said you will greatly benefit from incorporating either an eye serums or cream to your beauty routine- whatever your age. Too young to start?
Some women have the misconception that eye serums and creams as being for older women. But according to dermatologists, the earlier one starts using eye products the better. You don’t have to wait till you notice the tell-tale signs of aging to start using special eye creams and serums. Prevention is better than treating, right? 
Women with dry skin, noticeable dark circles, chronically puffy eyes, or other eye-specific issues are especially encouraged to start early. Look for key ingredients Not all eye creams and serums are created equal. When shopping, look out for specific active ingredients to suit your needs. 
You will find that there are special formulas for most of the common eye-related skin problems. To prevent or treat wrinkles and fine lines, look out for formulations with collagen-building ingredients such as retionol; to get rid of dark under eye circles go for those containing peptides and brightening ingredients like vitamin C and K, kojic acid, and licorice; for puffy eyes opt for formulas containing anti-inflammatory ingredients like caffeine and cucumber. When to apply?
Between morning and evening, when is the best time to apply your eye cream or serum? While some dermatologists advice twice a day application- both morning and night- many say that applying only in the evening is adequate. Your skin, just like the rest of your body, regenerates and repairs itself at night when you’re sleeping- which makes it the best time to apply serums.
Apply a pea-sized amount of the product after cleansing your skin in the evening. Use your ring finger to gently pat in the product without further damaging delicate skin. 