More agencies have been included in the investigation of the maize scandal at the National Cereals and Produce Board. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji told the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to include officials from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Kenya Revenue Authority, and Assets Recovery Agency. ALSO READ:

We have sufficient evidence to jail 54 NYS suspects, says DPP The team has also been ordered to provide updates on the status of the investigation. There have been complaints that irregularities in the purchase of maize at National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) allowed unvetted farmers to supply the produce. Agriculture and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri has promised to name the 'big fish' involved in the maize scandal as questions were raised about the origin of millions of kilos of maize secretly delivered to more than 30 NCPB depots across the country. Enough evidence Mr Kiunjuri said he would not resign despite calls for his exit. He said he was ready to face the cartels and promised to report the key players in the scam to the EACC and the Auditor General for action to be taken. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 House Agriculture Committee Chairman Adan Haji Ali accused Kiunjuri of failing in his role as the head of the ministry. “The buck stops at the leadership in the ministry. Those put in authority above the MD of NCPB must come clean. Kiunjuri must tell Kenyans what he knows about the twin scandals of maize and fertiliser. Those involved must be arrested and prosecuted immediately,” said the Mandera South MP. But Kiunjuri shot back: “I'm dealing with the big fish as we have enough evidence of the rot that has been going on in the board. I'm determined to dismantle the cartels operating at the NCPB and ensure all those responsible for the Sh740 million scam are prosecuted.” ALSO READ:

Focus shifts on banks in NYS scam