Events leading to the now famous handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga on March 9, started discreetly. They were kept so confidential that confidants to the two leaders were completely taken by surprise. Like with many other issues that the confidants were not privy to beforehand, they expressed their reservations immediately. While a few leaders in both camps took it in their stride, others reluctantly resigned themselves to fate. However, there are those who have openly expressed their opposition to the handshake, even trying to make it look like the families of Kenya’s former presidents were ganging up to ensure that the presidency remained in their clasp. ALSO READ:

Mixed reactions over Uhuru, Raila team Raila’s follow-up visits to retired presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki only heightened speculation. First to doubt Raila’s intent was Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu, who did not mince his words while stating so. He has since been joined by other leaders, among them Nandi Senator Samson Cheralgei. But, as it were, they might have jumped the gun; fearful that their carefully laidout plans might unravel in the new scheme of things. Until last Sunday, when a 14-member team was unveiled by both Uhuru and Raila to spearhead unity talks, not much had been done to assure a skeptical public, and speculation has been rife. From some leaders' reaction to the handshake, it is easy to determine that their focus has not been on improving the lot of Kenyans through efficient service delivery. They are scheming and getting ready to share the spoils in 2022 when the next General Election will be due and Kenyatta is barred from participating, having served his two full constitutional terms. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 However, as Uhuru and Raila pointed out at the memorial service of the late Kenneth Matiba, their focus is beyond 2022. And while this should have put paid to any unfounded fears over political scheming, it has succeeded in intensifying debate about 2022 succession politics. It is in that light that some of the most vocal politicians miss the point. Kenya is bigger than any of their ambitions, and there have been problems that need solving, particularly after the events of the disputed August 8, 2017 General Election. Kenya has been divided along tribal lines for far too long. Electoral injustices have been the cause of many deaths in this country, the worst coming after the 2007 General Election, and which saw a conflagration in which at least 1,300 people were killed and more than 500,000 displaced. Of those displaced then, there are some still crying out for compensation. There has been disgruntlement over lack of equity in public appointments and the distribution of the national cake to all regions. ALSO READ:

Gideon: Stop lies and sell agendas The bottom line is that Kenya is a divided country that needs healing, and nothing demonstrates this better than the swearing in of Raila as the ‘people’s president’ last January 30, to highlight the divisions. Uhuru and Raila have said that their concern is the unity of this country. Rather than distract them with unnecessary vitriol, all should hold their guns and give them time to actualize their promises. There will be enough time to train guns on the two leaders if in the near future nothing tangible and beneficial to the country at large comes out of the handshake, and their follow-up deeds. The 14-member team, a completely sober minded, non-radical group, promises that at least sobriety will prevail in the course of discussions that seek to chart the way forward for our country. Leaders who, as the President pointed out, thrive on discord, should hold their horses and for once, put the interest of the country first. A situation where Kenyans are pitted against each other for the benefit of a few selfish individuals is no longer tenable. The time to solve our socio-political differences once and for all is now. No doubt, this will give us ample time to leapfrog our economy and join the league of countries like Singapore that was at par with Kenya a few decades ago, but to which Kenya cannot hold a candle. ALSO READ:

MP: Mudavadi needs Raila to remain relevant