There is every reason for President Uhuru Kenyatta to be proud of the strides made by his government towards making devolution succeed. In truth, devolution has not been without its challenges, key among them the distribution of resources to counties which, as the President enumerated during this year’s State of the Nation address in Parliament yesterday, stood at Sh210 billion in the 2013-2014 allocation, but has since shot up by 56 per cent to stand at Sh327 billion in the 2017-2018 financial year. The recent signing of the Division of Revenue Bill 2018 into law will see the amount allocated to counties shoot to Sh372 billion in the 2018-2019 financial period. ALSO READ:

Uhuru: Forgive me, let us make Kenya better Many of the other positive moves include the allocation of Sh2 billion to the county Equalisation Fund and the decentralisation of the Huduma Centre programme to the counties in tandem with devolution’s aim of taking services closer to the people. Jubilee's flagship project, the Standard Gauge Railway, has registered tremendous success in the period following its roll out to date. Cargo volumes on the SGR rose from 22,345 metric tonnes in January 2018 to 213,559 tonnes by the end of April, while the Madaraka Express passenger train has transported more than 700,000 passengers in the same period. With the launch of the construction of the second phase of the SGR, these volumes are expected to go up considerably. Household connection to electricity through the Last Mile Connectivity initiative rose from 27 per cent in 2013 to 71 per cent today. That is commendable. Thousands of kilometres of roads have been upgraded to standards that make communication easy in areas that initially had myriad transport problems owing to bad roads. The inter-connectivity has improved trade in many areas, and with this, improved earnings for business people. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Despite the challenges in the health sector and the medical personnel work boycotts that impacted negatively on the economy and the public, several positive initiatives were rolled out - free maternity services and changes in the National Hospital Insurance Fund key among them. Compared to 2014, when terrorist activity created a lot of despondency across the country, calm has returned. Unfortunately, localised crime has been on the upward swing, calling for immediate police action. While food security is among the President’s 'Big Four' agenda items, little was said about agriculture and the measures put in place to not only increase food production, but also address numerous concerns raised by farmers, particularly in the Rift Valley and the coffee and wheat growing areas. Poor prices, poor storage and lack of incentives have greatly demotivated farmers. No doubt, farm input subsidies and prices that guarantee farmers returns on investment would go a long way in boosting our food security. ALSO READ:

Effects of Uhuru, Raila handshake Another key area that was left out was education. To date, most of the sticking points in the sector have been sorted out, but the constant agitation for better pay by university lecturers is eroding trust and confidence in our institutions of higher learning. It’s no wonder then that our global rankings in that field have been plummeting. Corruption costs this country an estimated Sh650 billion annually, which makes the recovery of only Sh500 million from ill-gotten wealth look paltry. The digitisation of key services may slow down the pace of corruption, but does not stop it. There is need for deterrent penalties and genuine political commitment to fight corruption. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission does not inspire much faith. The arrest of petty offenders, leaving the big fish to walk free, leaves a bitter taste in the mouth. Unchecked, corruption will kill the Uhuru's 'Big four' development agenda. The March 9 handshake has generated debate across the country, and while the President talked about it, he left out the details. That is understandable because there is a team identifying key friction areas with a view to solving the problems that threaten our peaceful co-existence. What is important, however, is the exhortation to work together, put Kenya first, and forget our petty differences. Together, there is no doubt that we can achieve a lot in a relatively short time. ALSO READ:

Uhuru renews fight against graft