  A 21-year old man has died from a snakebite and another is fighting for his life as a debate continues over the proposed de-listing of snake bites from compensation claims paid by the State. Philip Murithi died at Mpeketoni Hospital on Friday while Peter Mwaura was yesterday referred from the same facility to Coast Provincial General Hospital after he was bitten by a snake. Lamu County Wildlife Conservation and Compensation Committees (CWCCC) chairman Ali Shebwana confirmed that both cases had been reported to his office by the victims' relatives. “Yes, Mr Murithi died while receiving treatment in Mpeketoni but Mwaura has since been referred to Coast Provincial General Hospital for treatment,” said Mr Shebwana yesterday. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He said Murithi was from Muungano Tewe village and was a student at Kiongwe Secondary School while Mwaura comes from Mpeketoni. He criticised the proposal by Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala to de-list snake bites from compensation because it was becoming untenable. Shebwana, who is also the national secretary for the Council of Chairpersons of the 47 counties, said the proposal was ill-advised and called on Mr Balala to shelve it to give room for further consultations. He said conservationists were calling for a review or even an audit of all the claims paid before the CWCCC came into office, claiming that some payments were fictitious. “Snake bite compensation has drastically reduced and the CS is making the decision based on colossal amounts paid before CWCCC came into office,” said Shebwana. Balala recently said snake bite compensation was proving costly for the Government - it currently stands at Sh1.5 billion. “We have to de-list snake bites as part of the compensation or this country will go bankrupt,” said Balala in a recent interview. He said more than 70 per cent of application by victims of wildlife conflict across the country were those who claimed they were bitten by snakes.