Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o has vowed to sack county officers implicated in an anti-graft report currently being prepared by the Auditor General. Prof Nyong’o said officers from the auditor's office were compiling the report after pitching camp in the county for a month and that their report would settle corruption claims against some senior officers in his government. ALSO READ:

Taxman must tighten the system to net tax cheats, grow revenue Nyong'o spoke in Kisumu town during yesterday's Labour Day celebrations. “There were claims that there are cartels operating from Prosperity House (Governor’s office) and so I invited the Auditor General to conduct an audit. They are currently filing the report and I want to assure you that anyone implicated will be dealt with,” he said The assurance came amidst claims of irregularities in recruitment of staff, procurement processes and awarding of tenders. “Those hired through the back door and even those who hired themselves will be made known and dealt with," said Nyong'o. Board row Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 On the controversy surrounding the formation of a County Public Service Board, Nyong’o said he would defy all opposition to form a new board. “We must have a board that is transparent. We will establish that board whether someone likes it or not,” he said. A supremacy battle pitting the County Secretary Olango Onudi and the board chaired by Nashon Oguya has been escalating, threatening to stall operations in the county. The board suspended Dr Onudi over claims of abuse of office, but the secretary stayed put and continued discharging his mandate, prompting a stand-off. Onudi said the board lacked authority to send him home, arguing that it did not appoint him. ALSO READ:

Exposed: How state corporations misused public funds He described as busy bodies commissioners of the board and vowed to keep working as the county secretary, a position he was given in acting capacity by Governor Nyong’o.