The pupils of a primary school in Aldai constituency are learning in the kitchen and store after the roofs of their classrooms were destroyed by strong winds. Some of the pupils of Gambogi Primary School are learning under trees while others share a classroom after winds ripped off the roofs of Standard Four, Six, Seven, and Eight classrooms, the staff room, the administration office and the library in August last year during heavy rains. ALSO READ:

PATEL: The killer dam in pictures Head Teacher Stephen Songok said the school was facing challenges organising lessons for pupils. “Strong winds destroyed half of our school building nine months ago. The school administration has improvised to accommodate all students to ensure learning continues,” said Mr Songok. Classes One and Three pupils have vacated their classrooms for Class Eight candidates and have been moved to the kitchen and store respectively. Class Two pupils are learning under a tree.  “We have been studying in the open since last year. When it rains, we end our classes for the day,” said Chantelle Jerotich, a Class Two pupil. Class Two teacher Florence Aoko said half of her pupils had not reported to school, and that parents had reported that their children were suffering from cold-related ailments. Class Six teacher Simon Chumba said it was difficult to teach in a shared space with Class Four pupils. He said he was frustrated because his pupils found it difficult to concentrate. The onset of the rains in April has worsened the school’s situation, with half of the pupils missing from class. ALSO READ:

Schools still closed two weeks after flooding Teachers prepare lessons along corridors because there is no staff room. The school's administration said the Aldai CDF team had yet to visit the school to assess the damage. Terik MCA Osborn Komen said he had presented a plea to the county CDF and Ministry of Education offices, but they had yet to respond. Attempts to reach the Nandi education executive, Stanley Baliach, failed.