Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has asked leaders to shun propaganda and instead focus on solving issues affecting Kenyans. Speaking at Kapchepkor village in Baringo North yesterday, at the funeral service of his friend and local politician Yano Singei, Gideon wondered why some politicians were dwelling on lies and insults instead of tackling problems affecting wananchi. ALSO READ:

Ruto cautioned against Raila Gideon, who is also the Kanu national chairman, mourned the late Yano as a friend and a supporter he respected. He revealed that they had planned to meet and discuss plans to improve the lives of residents of Baringo North, among other issues affecting the region. Yano died in the United States on April 10. The senator called on leaders to stop insulting others, noting that he had never engaged in name-calling.  “I want to ask people, especially our leaders, I have never insulted anyone, why would you wake up and start insulting me?” he posed. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Gideon urged leaders to sell their ideologies and to allow residents the freedom to choose who they wanted to represent them. Little mileage “Talking about me won’t help. I know that earns you little mileage. However, you should sell your ideologies and let the people decide.” Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat, who accompanied Gideon to the funeral, hit out at National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale for his attacks targeting some leaders. ALSO READ:

Ruto supporters ignore Uhuru Salat, too, said the people should be left to decide who leads them. “I want to tell Duale that Jubilee and Kanu, we have nothing to fight over. Those in Jubilee have their own to pick for 2022. The same here, we have our own to pick for 2022. Where did we go wrong?” posed Salat. He said Kanu would vie in the 2022 elections like other parties, and win because they had nothing to hide. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo said there was time for everything, adding that last year’s elections were over and that it was time for leaders to fight the various challenges facing Kenyans. He urged politicians to unite Kenyans and work together to move the country forward. Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis and former Governor Benjamin Cheboi, speaking at the same venue, called on leaders to heed the calls to shun endless politicking. Mr Kiptis urged leaders and locals to unite and help in moving the country forward, adding that it was time for Baringo leaders to find a lasting solution to runaway insecurity in the region. ALSO READ:

Why Moi is our choice for 2022 - former MP