The destruction of a sacred tree where residents traditionally met to make decisions for the five clans in Taveta sub-county has sparked anxiety. The tree was destroyed in a tribal ritual conducted by a group of men brought into the area on Friday. The men conducted their ritual on a farm once owned by former Taveta MP Basil Criticos at Riata Hills. Locally known as Mti wa Chila, the tree was more than 100-years-old, though it had been neglected. According to residents and leaders, the tree is synonymous with the fig tree, where locals used to meet and appease their gods, besides making important decisions concerning the community. Speaking yesterday when members of the county assembly adjourned the morning session to discuss the tribal ritual conducted on the farm last week, nominated MCA Anastanizia Wakesho linked the misfortunes facing the community to the continued neglect of the shrine, where the tree stood before it was felled. The ODM legislator, who hails from Taveta, said local elders met under the tree to consult before making decisions concerning the community.  “The rains started beating us immediately the indigenous tree was destroyed to pave way for cultivation. The elders need to up their game and guard the shrines. They have been neglected for quite some time,” said Mwakesho. The tree was at Mboghoni village in the outskirts of Taveta town. The MCA said the traditional leadership system had been overwhelmed by modern administration, adding that the Taveta Council of Elders, known as Njama, and Taita’s Javungo Council of Elders, were no longer active. Mboghonyi MCA Jones Fundi Maskuji said residents were still demanding answers from the Government on the motive of the traditional rites. “Riata Hill belongs to the local community. How did the people from outside go to the hill to perform their traditional ritual?" the Jubilee Party legislator asked. Speaker Joan Akinyi directed the Lands and Culture committees to investigate the matter and report to the House in two weeks. “We need a comprehensive report on the traditional ritual for the House to take action,” she ruled. Elsewhere, Mr Criticos joined other leaders in condemning the traditional ritual conducted at the land he ceased to own. Governor Granton Samboja and Senator Jones Mwaruma also condemned the ritual.  “There is something going on. There is an agenda for the ritual,” Mr Criticos told The Standard yesterday, but without elaborating. The county government has asked religious leaders to organise cleansing prayers at the site where the ritual was conducted. Inheriting curses Mr Samboja and Mr Mwaruma said the prayers would be conducted to avoid future generations from inheriting curses. In addition, a Jubilee Party MCA, Reverend Frank Mmare, disclosed that 200 pastors had been lined up to conduct the cleansing ceremony at a date to be announced soon.