President Uhuru Kenyatta’s public apology during this year’s State of the Nation address was an acknowledgement that at a personal level, he might have failed or wronged some people. And without explicitly saying so, the apology also acknowledged that his administration might not have lived up to public expectation. Indeed, there is a lot going on for which the Government he leads has fallen short. For many Kenyans, each day is a struggle against injustices meted out by an unresponsive Government. Paying taxes is not an option; it is an obligation for every Kenyan. In exchange for this, we get services. However, the relationship is skewed in favour of the Government; it taxes the people and the people get a raw deal. While mechanisms for forcing tax compliance exist, there are no enforceable laws to compel the Government and its agencies to give competent services. ALSO READ:

Uhuru casts net wider for the big fish in fight against graft From health, education, security, food and agriculture, social services to the transport sector, there is much for which the Government should be sorry. Our public health sector is run down and a drain on taxpayers. Nearly half of Kenyans would prefer a private hospital over a publicly-funded one. The irony is that while health facilities have infrastructure, they lack the requisite equipment and staffing to offer services efficiently. The alternative is expensive private hospitals that are out of the reach of many Kenyans. A recent case of the family of a stabbing victim billed Sh800,000 for a 10-hour stay at a city hospital captures the crisis in the health sector. If public hospitals were well maintained, this would not have happened. The public transport situation exemplifies what has gone wrong with our society, where the end justifies the means and the motivation to make money has trumped all considerations, including love and respect for fellow humans. As in other cases, the Government has left the people to their own devices. It has abdicated its role as a regulator and left commuters at the mercy of exploitative cartels. Commuters, particularly in Nairobi, are paying dearly for this oversight. Touts double fares at the flimsiest of excuses, like when it rains. This is compounded by perennial traffic snarl-ups. When it rains, a person leaving the city centre at 5 pm will be lucky to make it home before 11.30pm.  The world over, because of its low margins and high maintenance, public transport is the responsibility of governments. In extreme cases, partnerships with State players ensure that commuters are shielded from exorbitant transport fees. The education sector has for long been in the grip of cartels. It is an expensive sector that locks out the poor. It is a sector known more for industrial action than the quality of its graduates and degree programmes that take longer than necessary to complete, at the expense of parents. Early this year, Kenyans were denied their right to information after the Government shut down three TV stations for exercising their right to inform the public. The media houses lost revenue. The Government’s decision to withhold advertising from media houses to force them to toe the line is hurting the media and only helps to depict the Jubilee administration as intolerant and uncaring. Media freedom must be guaranteed because media is a key ingredient in good governance. Farmers who toil to ensure food security in the country feel shortchanged. They lack Government support in enhancing production and marketing their produce. Most of their produce goes to waste because of poor prices at the National Cereals and Produce Board and obsolete storage facilities. How then can the Government guarantee food security when it demotivates farmers? ALSO READ:

Raila is our candidate in 2022- Orengo Corruption and bad governance deny the youth a chance to build their lives. For all the talk about curing corruption, Kenyans feel let down. They know that corruption is rife in Government ranks but are powerless to fight it. For promising much and doing little to make the lives of the people better, the political class has failed Kenyans. Mr Kenyatta has a rare opportunity to transform our politics into issue-based contests rather than tribal matches with the singular aim of bloodying an opponent’s nose. Too many wrongs have been committed against the citizens since 1963, when Kenya became independent. How Kenya was left behind by the Asian tigers - with whom we ranked at the same level at our independence - is an illustration of what sheer mismanagement, political incompetence, and corruption can do to hold back a country. For acknowledging that wrongs have been done to Kenyans, President Kenyatta deserves commendation. However, he should not stop there. His apology will have greater meaning if he sets out to address the many issues that hold back the promise of Kenya.