Hair is not a vital organ or tissue so the body doesn’t prioritise its nutrient needs. Because of this hair health generally suffers the most in times of nutrient deficiency. Poor hair health like thinned or falling hair is often used as a marker of poor nutrition. All your body cells including hair cells need a healthy balance of proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals to function at their best. ALSO READ:

Chebukati reveals weaknesses at IEBC The following nutrients are especially important for healthy, strong and lustrous hair. Up your Iron One of the symptoms of iron deficiency anemia is hair loss and weak hair.  Due to low hemoglobin in iron deficiency anemia, nutrient supply all over the body is disrupted and since hair isn’t a vital organ or tissue, the body channels oxygen and nutrients to the vital organs and tissue to support vital functions. If the cells at the hair bulb don’t receive adequate nutrition, they don’t divide and grow and hence hair doesn’t grow either. Sources: Beef, chicken and fish, legumes, green leafy vegetables are Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 On a low protein diet? A diet low in protein can greatly affect the health of your hair making it dry, brittle and weak. It can also retard hair growth. Since hair is primarily made up of protein, adequate dietary protein intake is essential for healthy strong hair. You can get proteins from both plants and animals. Moderate animal proteins and opt for lean proteins from white meats. Essential vitamin A Vitamin A is essential for the body to make sebum. Sebum is an oily secretion that keeps hair moisturised and prevents breakage. In its absence, the hair bulb becomes dry and brittle leading to dry, brittle hair loss. ALSO READ:

Ex-city lobby boss attackers still at large Sources: Organ meats, yellow and orange coloured vegetables like sweet potatoes, pumpkins, butternuts and carrots Ingest biotin Biotin (vitamin B7) plays a major role in maintaining hair, nail and skin health. It is commonly added to hair and beauty products; however, it is more beneficial when ingested. Sources: Liver, eggs, salmon, cheese, cauliflower and avocado. Increase zinc levels Zinc is an important mineral that function as an antioxidant to rid your body of toxins that can cause illnesses and disrupt normal body processes including hair growth. Zinc also boosts the immune system and helps strengthen hair follicles and prevents hair loss.  ALSO READ:

Tweak your diet to suit your age