Infinix Mobility has again launched one of its trendy phones in Kenya, Infinix 6 Pro. Infinix Mobility invested the better part of late last year and early this year innovating new amazing products that are meant to change the Smartphone market significantly. The new phone comes with a double camera phone with the ability to capture refined images and any color clearly. It has the efficient Qualcomm snapdragon as its core processor, giving it better capacity for heavy graphics. The Kenyan unveiling of the HOT 6 Pro, took place at the National Archives,  with local e-commerce giant Kilimall co-currently premiering initial sales, at Sh15,699 for the 3GB RAM, 32GB ROM variant and Sh13,699 for the 16GB ROM, 2GB RAM variant. The launch event, styled under the theme of ‘Double Amazing Xperience’, saw the first 100 customers who bought the device to get free movie tickets and other amazing prizes. The Infinix Hot 6 and the Hot 6 Lite smartphone are the successor of the Infinix Hot 5 and the Hot 5 Lite that were launched in 2017. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. HOT 6 Pro comes with a relatively superior double camera at a price that is more than generous in its category. The key target markets are the emerging markets of Africa, Middle East, South America and Asia regions, with its main target group being mostly young people of between 15 and 25 years. Using the AndroidTM 8.0 (Oreo) operating system, the device is well balanced in its execution of various processes. Infinix Brand Manager Mr. Zhang praised the brand and said, “HOT 6 Pro is a great addition to the HOT series portfolio. This is a smartphone meant for the young and tech savvy but budget conscious. They will get to be very creative in summer using this dynamic yet beautiful device. I challenge all the young to try it out and see for themselves.” HOT 6 Pro comes with a 6.0” 18:9 Infinity screen, a Qualcomm snapdragon processor, a powerful two rear-facing cameras of 13MP and 2MP lens adopting PDAF for fast focus, Face Unlock capability, a 4000mAh battery capacity and sleek unibody design. HOT 6 Pro is also packaged with a very good dual camera system that is unrivalled in its price segment. The images captured by it will be satisfactory even to the most stringent of selfie taking ‘slay queens.’ There is also the Face Unlock feature that is can be unlocked at a glance. To top it all up, there is the 4000nAh power battery to sustain operations all day long, making HOT 6 Pro quite a real catch. Infinix carried out a collaboration with several young volunteers who tried out the new phone’s exciting features, from its double camera to experiencing gaming on its large infinity screen. They all gave back a more than positive feedback. HOT 6 Pro Specifications: Network: 4G, Dual Nano SIM, OS: AndroidTM 8.0(Oreo), Hummingbird XOS 3.2, Display: 6.0” IPS screen, 18;9 Ratio, 500 nits brightness, Dimensions: 160.43*76.21*8.6 mm, Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon 1.4GHz Quad-core, Battery: 4000mAh non-removable, Memory: 16/32GB ROM + 2/3GB of RAM, Sensors: Fingerprint, Face Unlock, Gyroscope, Camera: Primary 13MP+2MP, f/2.0, Autofocus 