Three NASA co-principals have differed over the clamour to amend the Constitution. While Kalonzo Musyoka supported proposals for constitutional changes, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula called for national dialogue and debate on a Bill on the need for a referendum. ALSO READ:

Raila calls off economic boycott The Wiper leader said Kenyans were yearning for amendments to the election laws to guarantee free, fair and transparent elections in 2022. “It is a constitutional moment and we must capture the opportunity to ensure there are constitutional changes particularly in electoral laws that will provide Kenyans an avenue of participating in free, fair and transparent elections,” Kalonzo said during the homecoming ceremony of Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa in Mitoto village, Trans Nzoia County Saturday. Earlier during a Wiper meeting in Nakuru, the former Vice President called for the adoption of the Bomas Draft that provided for the position of a non-executive prime minister, saying the current structure is not inclusive. The draft law had also proposed slots for two deputy prime ministers. But Mudavadi said it was too early to talk about a referendum when it is not clear which sections are to be amended in the Constitution. “Let us discuss first, debate the clauses that need to be amended and draft a bill to pave the way for a referendum. We need experts to give direction on this matter because we have not seen the question,” he said. He added that the country was not ready for a referendum arguing that some people were out to grab an opportunity for ‘personal political gains’. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Referendum “Some people should not take us in circles in the name of a referendum targeted at fulfilling the interest of some individuals. Kenyans must have a say when experts give directions on this issue,” said Mudavadi. Wetangula said that there was no need for a referendum as any constitutional changes can be made by Parliament. “We do not understand this referendum people have started pushing. We must first sit down and agree on what must be changed. Some of the clauses can be amended in Parliament and not necessarily subjecting the country to an expensive referendum,” he said. Kalonzo assured supporters that NASA coalition is intact despite the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and co-principal Raila Odinga. ALSO READ:

No need to boycott, Raila tells supporters “We should not waste our time complaining about our brother Raila Odinga over the handshake. Let us remain united to hold jubilee accountable,” he said. [Osinde Obare and Mercy Kahenda]