Plans to start second term have been put on hold after pit latrines, weakened by weeks of rains, collapsed. More than 100 schools remained shut, as heavy rains continue in several parts of the country. ALSO READ:

Flooding highlights our poor level of disaster preparedness The persistent rains have left a trail of destruction, leaving hundreds of pupils stranded as their classrooms remained submerged. In some schools, plans to start the second term yesterday were put on hold as pit latrines, weakened by weeks of rains, collapsed, posing serious health risks to pupils. Officials in Tana River estimate that about 70 schools and institutions have either been marooned, destroyed or partially damaged by raging floods and unrelenting rain in Tana River County. “We are still compiling a report of all pupils affected by floods. The figure is not known, but it keeps rising because many institutions are getting submerged,” said Gitonga Mbaka, the Tana River Director of Education. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Mbaka’s list includes five secondary schools - Kipini in Kipini sub-county, Daku, Woldena and Galole Model in Tana River sub-country and Nanighi in Bura sub-county. In Tana North, schools shut down or partially destroyed include Bangale, Nanighi, Huruma, Furaha, Mapenzi, Hurara, Chewani, Hola (which has collapsed), Rafiki, Mbalambala, Mulanjo, Ziwani, Mororo and Hatata primary schools. Other schools affected are Kalalani, Kanelati, Titila, Dada, Makadala, Wayuboru, Wayuduka, Dada, Kottita, Haroresa, Galili, Idhowe, Gamba, Odole, Kililengwani, Ozi, Hewani and Wema primary schools. In Baringo South’s Sintaan Primary School, The Standard found classrooms flooded and latrines submerged. Majority of the 458 pupils failed to report to school yesterday. ALSO READ:

13 more killed in floods, mudslide More than 10 schools remained closed with 300 families living in seven villages displaced by floods. At Ng’ambo Girls Secondary School, dormitories and teachers’ quarters were submerged and not even a single student reported to school. In Marakwet East, Queen of Peace, Tot Mixed and St Pauls Kapkondot girls have been without water after pipes were destroyed by the floods. Elgeyo Marakwet, County Education Director Joseph Wamocho said most day secondary schools experienced similar challenges. In Nyando, learning was suspended in 29 primary and secondary schools, according to area MP Jared Okello. Learning was also disrupted in two schools in Nyatike and one in Homa-Bay. Nyora and Labuto schools in Nyatike could not reopen, according to area MP Tom Odege. Ahero Girls and Obiayo Primary School were also submerged. ALSO READ:

Water levels in Ndakaini dam rise Suba South sub-county recorded the highest number of damages with 19 schools affected. In Homa Bay, pupils of Nyalkinyi Primary School narrowly escaped death when a tree fell on their classroom.