Members of the Taita Taveta County Assembly yesterday raised concern over the "casual" manner in which the county executive was handling responses to statements and petitions raised by the House and residents. The MCAs claimed the county executives had formed a habit of ignoring and delaying responses sought by House members. ALSO READ:

Forget politics, I am now a tomato farmer: Mruttu Speaking during a special session chaired by Speaker Meshack Maganga yesterday, the MCAs warned that they would no longer entertain laxity among the executive members. They said the public had also raised concerns over the long delays in getting responses to their petitions through the House. Pending statements Wundanyi-Mbala MCA Beatrice Mwabili said there were more than 170 pending statements awaiting the executive's response since last October. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 “I had asked for two responses last year - one on education - which I am yet to receive,” the only female elected MCA told the speaker. Ms Mwabili said if the executive continued with the "negative" attitude towards the House on responses, they would create a roadblock that would impede harmony between the government and county assembly. Leader of Majority Jason Tuja claimed some county executive members were behaving as if they were on a “honeymoon”. The Werugha MCA asked the speaker to compel assembly committees to summon and reprimand officials guilty of delaying responses to the House. ALSO READ:

Election petitions to proceed despite rifts at IEBC “We cannot wait for responses to statements for a year. Executive members who are disregarding MCAs should be punished to serve as an example to others,” Mr Tuja told the speaker. Nominated MCA Maria Chao said county officials were failing the executive by delaying responses to statements raised by members and the public. “The executive does not respond to our statements and questions on time. They (executive) are fond of giving piecemeal responses,” noted the Jubilee Party MCA. “Petitions coming from the public should be treated with urgency. The responses must also be adequate and nothing short of that,” said Ms Chao. Mr Maganga committed the issue to the Committee on Devolution for action. Install heaters Meanwhile, an Opposition legislator has asked the county assembly to install heaters and air conditioners in the chambers. ALSO READ:

Iron ore mining resumes in Taita Taveta after 15 years Muungano Party MCA Newton Salim noted that the current weather had become unfavourable for some members of the House. “Some of us are suffering from asthma and require heaters to keep our bodies warm during this cold season. By installing heaters and air conditioners, the county assembly will not only be improving the welfare of the members but also the image of the House,” the Wumingu-Kishushe MCA said. The speaker said the matter would be addressed by the recently-constituted County Assembly Service Board.