Opposition Chief Raila Odinga Friday held a consultative meeting with members of the Nairobi Business Community. Raila, at the closed-door meeting, briefed the association about his recent unity pact with President Uhuru Kenyatta. He was accompanied by Nasa strategist David Ndii and MPs TJ Kajwang (Ruaraka) and Jared Okelo (Nyando). ALSO READ:

Here are the football legends who might benefit from Raila’s promise This the second time the Nasa leader is meeting the group, which hit the headlines in the run-up to the last elections after they came out to counter the opposition’s protests against the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) in Nairobi. When he emerged from the two-hour meeting, Raila declined to address journalists who had camped outside the hotel. He instead directed the association’s officials and MPs present to speak to the press. The business community’s chairman, Winfred Kamau, said their meeting with Raila marks the end of the differences they had with him. He said they are now ready to work together and unite Kenyans. “Time changes. We were just protecting our businesses. Raila has committed himself to building bridges among Kenyans. We fully support the initiative of the two leaders,” said Mr Kamau. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Kajwang rubbished claims that the consultation was a preparation for a referendum and 2022 succession politics. He said the meeting was meant to discuss how to extend the handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta to the grassroots. Okelo said Nairobi leaders who did not attend the meeting were “in the loop of what’s going on”, adding that the meeting was the first engagement before further details are revealed. Ndii did not speak during the briefing but later told Saturday Standard that the meeting was meant to shift Kenya’s politics from obsession with state power to people and issue-centered discourse. ALSO READ:

Handshake team meets