 A plenary session at the second day of the Legislative Summit was disrupted Wednesday after Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang made a comment that was deemed as disrespectful by a section of Ward Representatives present at the event. ALSO READ:

MCAs receive nod to get Sh11b for car grants Trouble started when Kajwang who was a moderator of the session declined to state his stand concerning the County Wards Development Equalization Fund Bill 2018, which if passed into law will see Members of the County Assemblies (MCA) control billions of shillings. The Senator while responding to a question by Nakuru County Assembly Leader of Majority Stanley Karanja, who demanded to know his position on the proposed legislation, said the Senate will consider ‘descriptive and prescriptive’ provisions of the bill before passing it. This did not go down well with Mr Karanja and a section of his colleagues who demanded that Kajwang, who is also the chairperson of Committee on County Public Accounts and Accounts Committee should not sit on the fence concerning the key issue. “If you need some English lessons on differences between descriptive and prescriptive, that is something that we can discuss later,” said a clearly agitated Mr Kajwang.  It is at this point that a shouting match ensued for close to an hour, with some MCAs led by Karanja demanding that the Senator who had taken his sit at the high table with other panelists should apologise for belittling them. Panelists at the session that was discussing how counties will work with the national government to deliver the Big Four Agenda watched helplessly as some of the ward reps attempted make their way to the front and eject the politicians. They were however restrained by orderlies from Senate and the county assemblies who were present at the hall. The panelists included Jane Kiringai, the chairperson of the Commission on Revenue Allocation, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago,  Mandera Senator  Mahamood Maalim  and Nandi Speaker Joshua Kiptoo. ALSO READ:

Female senators claim increased sexual violence Interestingly shortly   before the spectacle, Mr Kiptoo, who is also an official  of the County Assemblies Forum (CAF) had heaped praise on the current MCAs, arguing that unlike councillors, their predecessors, the group was civil and well-schooled. “The current crop of MCAs are more informed and civilised. Members of public should change their perception about us,” he said. The irony was not lost on Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen, who took to the stage to calm the agitated grass-root leaders who were baying for the blood of his colleague. He pledged to personally ensure the bill is passed. “We have just been told that you people are more educated and civil, but even before the ink dries on the paper you demonstrate that you are the exact opposite. We have embarrassed ourselves before the whole country and look so terrible,” said the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator. He gave the MCAs a tongue lashing noting  that heckling and engaging in a shouting match was not a civilised way to protest. He came to the aid of Sen.Kajwang, pointing out that  the senator  had nothing to apologise for. Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata,  the sponsor of the  bill that has generated controversy said all his colleagues have to  the bill  that seeks to  give MCAs control of at least  than eight per cent of all funds sent to their respective counties each year. According to the bill, each of the country’s 1,450 wards will directly get part of the funds that have in the past remained in the hands of governors. ALSO READ:

Boy, 5, burnt to death “The Fund shall comprise at least eight per cent of the share of revenue allocated to the respective county government for the respective year; and such other monies that may lawfully accrue to the Board in the discharge of its functions under this Act,” it reads in part. “An MCA daily interacts with the common man at the grassroots. You cannot give funds to the governor alone. Some Wards are suffering because their representatives are not in good books with the ward reps," he explained while defending his bill. 