A man suspected to be high on drugs was lynched after he killed his parents and a neighbour at Siritanyi village, Kanduyi constituency on Tuesday evening. Yusuf Sieunda, 25, reportedly bludgeoned his mother Grace Akot, killing her on the spot. ALSO READ:

Wetang’ula: I haven’t met Raila since my ouster A neighbour, Joseph Masafu, who rushed to rescue the woman after he heard screams, was attacked with the same club. He, too, died on the spot. The assailant is later said to have trailed his father David Nasieunda, who was about 100 metres away in his farm, and attacked him with the same club. Nasieunda was taken to Bungoma West Hospital in Kanduyi, where he died while receiving treatment. The assailant fled to a nearby church but was flushed out by angry villagers who lynched him. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Daniel Wabwile, a neighbour, said the man had been walking around with a club challenging anybody to a fight. “He looked like he was high on something,” Nabwile said. Just graduated He said the man, who was usually reserved, had just graduated with a diploma from a Bungoma-based college. His parents had suspected that he used drugs. ALSO READ:

Bungoma ECDE tutors receive Sh530m arrears “His parents had noticed strange behaviours in him and had called him on Sunday for counselling. He admitted to have been using bhang,” he said. Pushed away Julia Nasimiyu, Joseph Masafu’s widow, said she saw her husband being attacked by the young man and tried to intervene, but was pushed away. Nasimiyu said she retreated after realising that the man was determined to harm anyone who got in his way. “He shouted that he would kill anyone who would dare go near him. He pushed me away when I tried to intervene. “This was a polite boy I knew while he was growing up and his actions have really shocked us,” she said. Musikoma MCA George Makari said there had been an increase in drug abuse in the area among the youth. He called on security agencies to tackle the problem. ALSO READ:

School faces closure over collapsed toilets Bungoma South Deputy OCPD Aloys Orioki said it was a case of drug abuse, as the man did not have any dispute with the family. The bodies were taken to Bungoma County Referral Hospital mortuary.