Yesterday Kenyans woke to the sad news that Patel Dam in Subukia, Nakuru County, had burst, causing death and massive destruction as raging waters destroyed everything in their path. By yesterday evening, police had confirmed the deaths of 48 people, while an unknown number were still missing. Overall, more than 500 people are said to have been affected by the calamity. Commendably, swift action by survivors and those in the vicinity of the destruction, joined by the indefatigable Red Cross Society, Kenya Defence Forces, National Youth Service and other volunteers, managed to rescue a number of people trapped in the sludge and debris left in the wake of the dam water. In true Kenyan spirit, volunteers were on hand, working tirelessly to offer whatever assistance was needed. But as often happens, Government agencies were the last to arrive on the scene going by witness accounts. ALSO READ:

Death at night: Survivors recount dam tragedy In an interview with journalists, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui pledged that his government would assist the victims, who urgently need food, shelter and medical care. But questions must be asked of his government and, by extension, the National Environment Management Authority (Nema). Both have roles in the licensing and regulation of activities of the dam in line with safety measures. Clearly, this should have been of paramount concern given the location of the dam in a populated area, even as the attendant dangers must have been considered and evaluated during the impact assessment; assuming any was conducted in the first place. Still, survivors in the doomed village claim they had objected to the construction of the private dam from the outset, fearing it would impede their water supply and pose a danger to them, but the local leadership reportedly ignored their pleas. While the authorities endeavour to get to the bottom of the matter, the need for thorough investigations to establish whether construction of the dam followed the necessary processes and met set standards cannot be over-emphasised. Witness accounts point to the possibility of negligence on the part of the dam’s management. There could have been laxity on the part of the inspectorate departments of Nema and the County Government of Nakuru. Indeed, their roles did not end with the granting of licences; they needed to conduct periodic inspections to ensure the dam was not in any way, a security risk. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Residents interviewed while rescue efforts went on claimed that leaks had been witnessed by some locals who even made passing jokes about them. There are those who wagered a bet that they might not be alive in the morning, fearing the dam walls could break. And as fate would have it, almost 50 bodies are lying now in the local mortuary. It is safe to assume that the leaks residents referred to could have started a long time before the dam burst. That raises questions why villagers and those who stood to be affected should the dam burst were not alerted of the impending damage. Had that been done, perhaps there would have been no loss of life. Further, what measures had been put in place to safeguard the dam if the volume of water exceeded what the dam could safely contain? The damage caused by rivers that have burst their banks across the country should have alerted the owner of Patel Dam to monitor its water levels. After all, Nakuru County has not been spared the heavy rains. Apparently that did not happen - an oversight that has caused many deaths and untold suffering. The routine of an entire village has been completely and perhaps even permanently altered by what may have been negligence. With homes washed away, crops destroyed, livestock killed, business premises destroyed and schools closed, residents must be pondering their next move. With nothing to start life afresh with, only gloom stares them in the face. All efforts should be made to assist the victims and lessen the pain they feel. ALSO READ:

Lack of legislation blamed for poor disaster preparedness More urgently, Nema and other regulatory agencies must be on the lookout, especially for sub-standard buildings that could collapse and cause more deaths. Just because no buildings have so far collapsed does not mean all of them are safe.