''I've run many businesses before finally settling on leather'' Jacob recollects. He quit seminary school and landed a job at a leather tannery in Athi River town where he worked for a year. Jacob left Athi River for Thika where he got a job at a leather goods manufacturing company. Jacob Mithamo Mwangi, 48 held this job for nine years before quitting to open his own workshop. He started out making small leather items, such as keyholders and coin purses. However, business was tough, so he closed shop and started hawking mops. ALSO READ:

Businessman back home after 5-year detention in Tanzania Jacob recalls, ‘’In 2002, I went back to the leather business and I've stuck with it to date. I have 57 different products, ranging from tripod stools and belts to bags, coin purses and key holders. My products are of high quality - I still wear a belt I made for myself nine years ago.’’ Prices of his items are friendly, ranging from Sh50 to Sh5,000. He however says the main challenge in the leather business is cheap imports from China. ‘’Kenya has become a dumping ground for all manner of products from overseas. Some of the products are not original and many people are duped into buying them because they are cheaper,’’ he says. Jacob confirms that 70 per cent of his customers are tourists, but the tourism sector slowed down following the political climate. ‘’I buy leather from a tannery at Sh50 to Sh500 per square feet, depending on the thickness, size, colour and so on. Before 2007, I had more than 20 employees, but now I only have five,’’ he states.  Jacob believes that there’s a lot of potential for this market, especially with regard to consumer awareness. He now urges Kenyans to buy Kenyan products. Mwangi exports some of his products to Tanzania, Uganda, South Africa, Namibia and Swaziland. He has a few customers who are exporting his products to the US. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840