President Uhuru Kenyatta has called for an end to politicking saying it was injurious to national cohesion. The the Head of State was speaking during the wedding ceremony Daniel Kijabe and Naserian Ketuiyo in Olesentu village, Kilgoris constituency, yesterday. ALSO READ:

Team key in driving Jubilee’s development goals “As you all know, we are done with politics and what we have now is development. When leaders engage in squabbles, the people suffer,” President Kenyatta said. President Kenyatta’s plea comes at a time when Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga are at loggerheads over March 9 handshake and referendum calls. Ruto, while addressing a rally in Kwale accused Raila of using the “handshake” to edge him out of the ruling Jubilee Party. On the other hand, Raila who spoke at Migori maintained that the constitutional referendum was inevitable. President Kenyatta also took the opportunity to thank locals in the volatile Transmara East/West area for surrendering more than 100 illegal firearms and embracing peace. “Security is crucial for our country. As I have heard from the Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu that you’ve voluntarily surrendered the arms, I thank you. You should live with your neighbors as brothers and sisters as all of you are Kenyans,” said Kenyatta. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. There was a light moment at the event after Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko revealed how he became a father in Form Three.  “I have over 25 years experience in marriage. I became a dad when I was a Form Three student before I married my wife in 1998,” said Sonko amid laughter. Governor Sonko asked the newlyweds to tolerate each other and shun bickering. Narok Governor Samuel Tunai who is the cousin to the groom hailed the President for honouring the invite to the wedding. Governor Tunai also lauded the Jubilee administration for the infrastructure development in the county. ALSO READ:

Our woes aren’t constitutional but desire for hegemony 