 For the second time, Turkana County has been identified as the most marginalised region in various policies crafted by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. ALSO READ:

School rallies alumni to support Sh25m library In the first policy in 2013, the county received Sh1.5 billion and looks forward to get Sh1.2 billion of the Equalisation Fund after commission launched the second policy in June this year. In the previous policy, the Commission on Revenue Allocation (KRA) identified the criteria by focusing on legislated discrimination, geographical location, culture and lifestyle, external domination, land legislation and administration, minority groups, ineffectual political participation and inequitable government policies. Focus was also on poverty, food insecurity, poor infrastructure, poor governance and poor state of basic social services. The previous policy identified 14 counties, namely Turkana, Mandera, Wajir, Samburu, West Pokot, Tana River, Narok, Kwale, Garissa, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Isiolo and Lamu which shared Sh11.8 billion. In the second policy, the number of counties has increased to 34 and they are set to share at Sh12.4 billion after the commission identified them as marginalised in different sectoral  priorities including roads, health, education, water, and electricity as well as fund administration. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. The counties include Baringo set to receive Sh702 million, Kajiado (Sh489 million), Kitui (469 million), Migori (Sh210 million), Homa Bay (Sh155 million), Laikipia (Sh141 million), Nandi (Sh138 million), Elgeyo Marakwet (77 million), Kericho (72 million). Others are Bungoma (69 million), Tharaka Nithi (52 million), Siaya (38 million), Kisumu (29 million), Bomet (23 million), Busia (21 million), Machakos (15 million), Trans Nzoia (9 million), Nakuru (8 million) and Murang'a (7 million) Only 13 counties, including Nairobi, Uasin Gishu, Mombasa, have not been identified as marginalised. ALSO READ:

Rising economic giant: Why Turkana is the place to be Speaking in Eldoret yesterday, CRA Chairperson Jane Kiringai said the Equalisation Fund stands at 0.5 per cent and the current approach brings out instances of marginalisation that exist among counties perceived to be well-endowed.