Nairobi’s gold-chain wearing governor Mike Sonko has hinted at the possibility of not seeking a second term. The flamboyant county chief seems to be positioning himself for a more powerful position. In the past, he has been seen as a possible running mate for both Deputy President William Ruto and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka in the 2022 race. ALSO READ:

President Uhuru Kenyatta lauds KDF as Kenya's Mashujaa "It is not a must for me to become governor again. I will make sure I bring sanity to the county," he said at Pumwani grounds on Saturday during Mashujaa Day celebrations. Woman Representative Esther Passaris attended. Sonko has thrown his weight behind Ruto, sometimes defending his 2022 bid against individuals who are against it. He clashed with Interior PS Karanja Kibicho who accused him of holding night meetings to plot against Ruto’s 2022 plans. The governor accused Kibicho of ganging up with senior civil servants against Ruto. He said four top officials in President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration claimed Mt Kenya will not support Ruto.  On Kalonzo, Sonko has joined Ukambani leaders pushing the Wiper boss to take over the opposition. Following the March 9 unity deal dubbed the Handshake, NASA leader Raila Odinga seems to have taken a back seat regarding keeping the national government in check. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. But his record has not gone untarnished, with the latest being calls to impeach him. Like many politicians who have face motions to remove them, Sonko seems to have mastered the art of dodging the bullet. Sonko said he would continue fighting people who want to stall development and entrench corruption in Nairobi. He asked the Director of Public Prosecutions and other agencies to crack the whip in Nairobi. "They must clean the county," he said. Coming in the backdrop of possible impeachment, the 43-year-old county boss has worked to improve his record at City Hall, conducting sting operations in the auditing, inspectorate and accounting departments to curb corruption. ALSO READ:

Ruto tells off his critics over 2022 However, the dramatized nature of the operations seems to have irked Kenyans who described them as publicity stunts. 