In less than a week, Kenyans will commemorate one year since the death of one of the country’s greatest peace makers - Bishop Cornelius Korir. The Eldoret Catholic Diocese, which Bishop Korir headed until his death on October 30, has lined up various activities to mark the day. ALSO READ:

Here’s how to save the Catholic Church from scandals Korir, who died aged 67, stood out because of his peace building initiatives. His model of fostering peace was enhancing engagements between warring communities to encourage unity and cohesion. The prelate was buried in a special tomb inside the Sacred Heart Catholic Church in Eldoret town on November 11. Bring flowers And since his burial, faithful have been frequenting the site to pray. A nun holds the key to the tomb that is kept clean round the clock. The faithful bring flowers, which the sisters ensure they are neatly arranged. Fresh flower petals are always scattered on the tomb. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “The tomb has a steel door to ensure its safety because of the many people visiting. We know while the faithful come here to pray, there are those who come with other intentions. That is why we close the place,” said Father William Kosgey, the vicar general of the Eldoret Diocese. Korir’s burial was in line with the church’s doctrines that dictate a bishop who dies while in service should be buried inside the church. At the corner of the tomb are vases brought by members of Bishop Korir’s family, which visited the tomb last week. ALSO READ:

Pope expels priest accused of child sex abuse On the tomb are inscriptions describing his work and the date of his death. Church officials said faithful from within and outside the country and several leaders stream to the site to pray and get a glimpse of the tomb. When The Standard visited, preparations for Korir’s first anniversary were in top gear. There will be a special Mass on November 3. The day was picked to enable as many people as possible to attend. Kosgey said they have lined up a series of activities, including a vigil Mass. “On the material day, we shall hold prayers and bless his tomb before a Mass at 10am,” he said. He added: “We have requested other parishes to hold a celebration Mass in remembrance of Bishop Korir on October 28. Similarly, we shall exhibit several items associated with the bishop outside the cathedral starting next week.” ALSO READ:

Revealed: Oyamo was Obado's student at High school The items include his cassock, Mass books, a microphone that he always carried, his seats, cups, plates, ciborium (a cup used to hold the Eucharist), his books and the chalice. “After the Mass and the exhibition, we will set up a gallery where these items will be displayed,” said Kosgey. President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy, William Ruto, and ODM leader Raila Odinga have been invited to the event. “The bishop played a critical role in uniting communities. It will be important for our leaders to join in celebrating his life, in the spirit of the handshake and building bridges,” said Kosgey.