 The Kirinyaga governor wants the authorities to investigate a woman for giving a false sworn statement. ALSO READ:

More needed to fight entrenched corruption Anne Waiguru has said Josephine Kabura should say who pushed her to author a damning affidavit on the National Youth Service scandal that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) now says was false. Yesterday, the governor said it was not enough for the State to charge Ms Kabura with lying under oath and that she should say who she was working with. According to Ms Waiguru, Kabura's affidavit ruined her career as Devolution Cabinet secretary, alongside seven other people the hairdresser adversely linked to a multi-million shilling scandal. The anti-graft agency has said that after conducting an investigation with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, no evidence was found to support the affidavit. Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji, however, rejected a recommendation by EACC to charge Kabura for lying under oath, instead calling for additional investigations. “I agree with what the DPP has said, that there should be further investigations. It is not enough to say that Kabura should be charged because the question is, if she took money and she claims she brought it to me and they have confirmed she did not bring it to me, then who did she give the money to?” asked Waiguru. She added: "They need to call out who her accomplices are and who she was working for because our reputations have been ruined and our careers were messed up because of the allegations. I would love to know who were behind her because Kabura was not working by herself. She did not draft that affidavit by herself; she has accomplices. Who are they and who does she work for?” Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The EACC wrote to Mr Haji on June 12 informing him that the hairdresser had knowing mislead them about the scam. “EACC together with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations has established that the allegations against the suspects were bereft of truth, were denied in totality and there is no evidence to support the same,” a Gazette notice published by the EACC last Friday read. The governor said she was happy that she had finally been vindicated, adding that Kabura's claims had been a heavy burden to shoulder. ALSO READ:

EACC: Interior Ministry most corrupt Waiguru, through lawyer Issa Mansur, wrote to the EACC last month asking it to make public its findings on the case.