A senior government official has been questioned by police after a gun incident on Saturday evening in Nairobi. Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS) for East African Community and Northern Corridor Development, Ken Obura, told police at Karen Police Station that he was driving home at about 5.30 pm when he noticed a suspicious car trailing him. ALSO READ:

Ex-MP involved in city gun drama He claims he then reached for his gun and shot in the air. Obura (pictured) is a licensed gun holder. No one was injured during the incident. Obura told The Standard he was driving to his house when a motorist tailed him up to his gate. “There was no road rage at all. I was driving home when I realised someone was pursuing me up to my gate. I didn’t have my bodyguard so I reached for my gun and shot once into the air and he drove off. Just that,” he said. He said he did not know the motive of the motorist and acted in self defence. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Elsewhere, a police officer attached to the Directorate of Criminal Investigation was arrested on suspicion of being involved in a kidnapping incident. The officer, a constable, has a pending court case of robbery. He and three other accomplices are accused of kidnapping Ochieng Okelo at Athi River, Delta Petrol Station on Saturday. They forced him into his vehicle and proceeded to Kayole area before his wife reported the matter to police saying the kidnappers had demanded Sh300,000 ALSO READ:

Crime: Why the heat is too much A fortnight ago, the officer was arrested in connection to stealing and extortion of Sh800,000 from a Malian national in Nairobi’s Kilimani area. He was suspected of raiding Bathily Abdoulaye’s house in the company of four other police officers and stole the money and other valuables. Meanwhile, the government of Mali has denied reports that two suspects arrested with fake currency valued at Sh1 billion are its citizens. Dr Odudu Barbra Magoha, the honorary consul of Republic of Mali, said the three men's nationalities was not properly reported. They are expected in court on Thursday. 