National Ethics and Corruption Survey by EACC shows Interior Ministry as most prone to corruption followed by Health and Lands Ministries. The Interior and Coordination of National Government Ministry was leading at 64.7 percent, Health (27.8) and Land, Housing and Urban Development (23.9). ALSO READ:

EACC arrests Five Nyeri County officers EACC released the 2017 National Ethics and Corruption Survey Monday morning at the KICC to provide data that will strengthen the anti-corruption strategy in the country. The survey covered 47 counties with 5977 household respondents and was conducted from 18th September to 24th October 2017. EACC Chairman Eliud Wabukala said 63.5 of the respondents interviewed said they sought government services in form of asking for information, assistance, requesting for a document or other administrative procedures in the last (12) months. Wabukala said the survey shows an increase in public interest in the fight against corruption. “Our aim is to root out corruption in the country. Kenyans should suggest ways to do this, since war against corruption is our common responsibility,” Wabukala said. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. However, there has been a significant rise in the number of people who pay bribes to obtain services in public offices from 46 percent posted in the 2016 survey to 62 percent. Over 27 percent of the respondents were explicitly asked for a bribe while seeking government services, 9.8 percent were implicitly asked while 2.1 percent voluntarily offered to bribe to obtain the services. Counties were also ranked in the survey with Mandera and Kisumu counties topping the most corrupt counties list. Turkana and Nairobi were ranked the highest in the 2016 report. ALSO READ:

Obado’s bodyguard arrested In the most corrupt institutions category, Kenya Police was ranked first followed by National Police Service Commission (13.7 percent), Public Hospitals (9.8), Kenya Revenue Authority (8.2), National Land Commission (7.3), National Transport and Safety Authority (4.9) and Immigration Department (4.3). Media effectiveness was also part of the survey, with over 77 percent of respondents saying the media was doing enough to fight corruption and unethical behavior in the country compared to 14.8 percent who presented a contrary view. In this survey, corruption emerged as the leading problem facing the country at 43.6 percent, Poverty (37 percent) came second followed by Unemployment (32.2), Unfavorable economic conditions (22.2) and political instability (21.8)