The Kenyan hospitality and tourism industry has hailed positive coverage of its pristine white sandy beaches by America's global news network, CNN, in one of its platforms - the CNN Traveller. Kenya Tourism Federation national chairman Mr Mohamed Hersi termed the coverage a big boost. ALSO READ:

Veteran hotelier lands job at Kenya’s leading tour operator ''CNN and its subsequent networks reach millions of viewers around the world. This is adequate coverage that CNN Traveller has granted destination Kenya,'' said Hersi, who is also Pollmans Tours & Safaris operations director. Diani Reef Beach Resort & Spa managing director Bobby Kamani said he is delighted with the coverage on CNN Traveller. ''This is encouraging news coming from a reputable media organization at a time when Kenyan tourism is improving,” he said. The CNN Traveller report describes Diani as a must-visit beach with soft sand and sea water that runs a dozen shades of blue. ''…black-and-white colobus monkeys swing through the trees and scamper over the roofs of the seaside villas. The skydivers and kite surfers hover high above the strand. If you are up early enough, [you will experience] the incredible sunrises over the Indian Ocean,'' the CNN Traveller report says. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Apart from describing the Diani attractions, CNN Traveller mentions celebrated national parks and wildlife. CNN Traveller further says astride the equator on roughly the same latitude as the Seychelles and Maldives, Bali and northern Brazil, Kenya enjoys the same geographical conditions as some of the world's top sun, sea and sand destinations. ''Once upon a time, there wasn't much in the way of beachside hotels beyond Mombasa and Malindi. Nowadays, however, there's accommodation at every level, from backpacker hostels to chic boutique properties.” CNN Traveller speaks on the restaurant scene, where a wide selection of places serve modern takes on traditional Kenyan cuisine and international dishes. Most of Kenya's best beaches are located north and south of Mombasa in the southeast. The northeast shore is deserted, except for the exotic Lamu Island and a few hideaways around Mambrui. CNN Traveller says Diani makes it easy to combine surf with safari at the nearby Shimba Hills National Reserve and Mwaluganje Elephant Sanctuary, both little over an hour away. It's also an adventure sports hub, renowned for kitesurfing, skydiving and deep-sea fishing. The Sands at Chale Island is Kenya's only private island resort, floating less than the length of a soccer field off the mainland, but feels like it's a million miles away. Surrounded by coral reefs and covered in thick tropical vegetation, the island has one main beach. It also has several small secluded strands where your footsteps will most likely be the only ones in the sand, except for amphibian fins. Chale is a nesting place for several species of endangered sea turtles. The Sands at Chale Island hotel curls around the main beach on the island's windward shore. Beach bumming is the main activity, but the resort can also arrange snorkeling or scuba diving in Kisite-Mpunguti Marine National Park, kayaking in the nearby mangroves, catamaran sailing, deep-sea fishing and excursions up the coast to Diani Beach. CNN Traveller reports that several new mega-resorts have transformed the beach area into something that resembles the Caribbean. Foremost among these is the Vipingo Ridge, a sprawling hilltop compound with incredible Indian Ocean views and top-rated golf course in Kenya. Also new is the daily Safarilink air service connecting Kikambala to Nairobi and Diani. The old Swahili town of Lamu is a living museum of the hybrid African-Islamic-Arabian culture that dominated the East African coast for hundreds of years, the CNN Traveller states. Shela Beach on the island's windward side is long, soft and entirely undeveloped. And because there's no barrier reef, this is one of the few places along the Kenya coastline where you can hang 10 on fairly surfable waves.