President Uhuru Kenyatta’s inaugural visit to Nandi County since last year's General Election sought to reassure locals of his pact with Deputy President William Ruto. The President, who was accompanied by Mr Ruto, addressed thousands of residents at Kapsabet Showground where he advised Rift Valley residents to ignore reports of cracks in the Jubilee party. ALSO READ:

Diversification of crops will improve diet and income “I am surprised that the leadership of this region has the time to read half-baked stories about splits in Jubilee. I advise our supporters to ignore whatever is written in the newspapers,” said Mr Kenyatta yesterday. There has been unease in the Rift ever since Uhuru mended political fences with Opposition chief Raila Odinga following a much-debated March 9 handshake. The Head of State, who had attended a fundraiser for the Anglican Church of Kenya, was replying to Nandi Senator Kiprotich Cherargey and his Elgeyo-Marakwet counterpart Kipchumba Murkomen who sought to know the fate of Ruto’s aspiration to vie for the presidency in 2022. Coalition partner “We have been true to the Jubilee agenda and have laid our 100 per cent trust in your leadership as our President and coalition partner. As Rift Valley leaders, we continue to push for a Ruto presidency in 2022,” said Mr Cherargey. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Mr Murkomen said, “A lot has been printed in the media that the Jubilee house is shaky. We would like to see you stand firm as a united team despite many odds.” Uhuru reiterated that his main agenda was to unite the country even as he attempted to allay residents' fears that he was siding with Ruto’s political enemies. “Do not be worried; the Jubilee agenda will continue. All the decisions I make are for the benefit of the country,” said Uhuru. ALSO READ:

Ruto used Weston title to borrow Sh1.3 billion When Ruto took to the podium, he tactfully remind the President of their journey as a coalition. He praised Uhuru for making ‘tough decisions’ with the best interests of Jubilee and the country in mind. “I remember where the journey started. I am happy we have put doubting Thomases to shame with our unity." Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka congratulated Jubilee for the economic strides the Western region was making and pledged their support. 