 Microsoft’s latest update for Windows 10 has been temporarily withdrawn while the company investigates claims that it's deleting files from some computers. ALSO READ:

Kenyan start-up gets Microsoft funding Some horror stories have appeared on user forums with people claiming the update has deleted large numbers of files. The problem seems to be that the user directory is being wiped. This is where Windows usually stores documents by default, including anything saved on your desktop and downloads from the web. An OS update wouldn't usually delete files in this manner but it always makes sense to take backups before installing updates. If you've installed the update there's a chance you might be affected. If that's the case, there are some tips below that might help you recover your files. Betanews reports that while the files have been deleted it may be possible to recover them. This is because the hard drive isn't wiped when Windows updates. Instead files are marked as "deleted" but remain in the drive. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 This allows Windows to show you free space, but the files may only be destroyed once you start saving new files. If you're affected the advice is to stop using the machine and get a file recovery app. Betanews recommends Recuva for this. There's also the chance that Windows moved your user folder during the update. Check your hard drive (usually the c: drive) for a folder called "windows.old" and look for your username in the subfolders. ALSO READ:

Microsoft’s huge change to windows that will affect millions of users Microsoft moved to a twice-yearly update program for Windows 10 in a change to how the company produces its operating system. Previously the company would release new versions of the OS as chargeable updates - they're now free. This is great news most of the time because it adds features. But it's also a lot less obvious to many users now that a message saying "you have an update" could be a major reworking of the OS. Most people won't have had the update pushed to them yet, only those who actively sought out the new version. Microsoft hasn't yet given any information about when the update will be available again.