Secretary of Innovation, Digital and Diaspora Communication in the Office of the President Dennis Itumbi and murder suspect Jacque Maribe at the Milimani law court on Tuesday 23rd October 2018. [Beverlyne Musili, Standard] Jacque Maribe is still an employee of Royal Media Services, the owners of Citizen TV. ALSO READ:

Jacque Maribe, Jowie charged afresh with Monica’s murder Despite facing murder charges, the Citizen TV news anchor and political reporter, has received the backing of Group Managing Director Wachira Waruru. Standard Digital has seen a letter dated 23rd October 2018 and signed by Waruru. It is not explicitly addressed to anyone and is titled: "To whom it may concern." In the letter packaged in six points, Waruru has confirmed that Maribe is still their employee and has taken leave to attend to personal issues. Maribe and fiance Joseph 'Jowie' Irungu are key suspects in the murder of Monica Kimani that happened in her apartment in Kilimani on September 19. Further, Waruru says Maribe has had a clean record while in the employment of the company. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “Having engaged her for the last six years, and assessing her performance, we vouch for her character and recommend for her admission to bail,” says the letter. Waruru said Maribe has taken leave “to attend to personal issues". He went on, "Due to her exceptional performance she has been appointed to the position of Friday's prime time news anchor." ALSO READ:

Maribe, Irungu to remain in custody till next week "She joined the company as a reporter on Citizen Television and was later promoted to the position of senior reporter on the same station. Arising from the promotion, she was assigned huge national and international events which she undertook successfully." On Wednesday, Maribe's lawyers opposed calls by the DPP to stop her from presenting news. State prosecutor Catherine Mwaniki said Maribe should not appear on screen as she would influence witnesses in the murder case. The prosecutor added that Maribe should be grounded so she does not mingle with the public. But Maribe's lawyer Katwa Kigen said she has cooperated and such should guide the court's decision. Mwaniki said Maribe’s co-accused Irungu confirmed being a trained security agent known to influential politicians, hence his release can intimidate the witnesses. The TV star and fiance will remain in police custody until October 30, when ruling on their bail application will be made, Justice James Wakiaga said. ALSO READ:

GSU man in murder probe well trained Mwaniki also made amendments leading to inclusion of other suspects in the murder case.