 As cancer cases become a major threat in the country, health experts have warned that food and environmental contamination by harmful chemicals used in crop production could be a major contributor to this growing challenge. ALSO READ:

KWFT to spend Sh3b on water programmes As a result, the demand for organic food is gradually increasing, providing investment opportunities for entrepreneurs such as Cedrick Todwell, who is also Sistema.Bio commercial director to work in conjunction with other partners in ensuring increased production of organic foods. According to Todwell, a solution to environmental conservation, in terms of preserving the forest cover in the country lies with new biogas technology called Sistema.Bio that offers cooking gas and residue used as organic fertiliser. He started the new bio digester project in June 2017 with Alex Eaton the Founder of Sistema.bio and aims to reach 20,000 households in two years. Todwell is currently working with Alex Eaton to roll out the modern bio digester technology in Kenya, that is movable and can be built in three hours. This is contrary to the traditional bio digester that required more time and big land for establishment. With the new technology, a farmer requires a minimum of two cows to start enjoying benefits of the bio digester and pay monthly instalments of between Sh4,000 and Sh8,000 within a year, depending on size. Farmers can as well use waste from pigs or poultry in the bio digester. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Todwell explains that the new biogas technology is based on a simple cycle, “The cow eats grass and poops. The system converts the poop into cooking gas and organic fertilizer.” He added that they have been issuing avocado seedlings to farmers as well as enlightening them on the benefits of organic foods. The entrepreneur has been nominated for the 100 Tropics Changemakers 2018 Award for championing use of renewable bio energy in Africa. The new bio digester is an airtight hybrid reactor that receives daily waste from the farm and mixes with water. Upon fermentation, biogas is produced and conveyed through pipes to the points of use. At the other end of the system comes organic fertiliser. ALSO READ:

Cereal prices down as pastoralist counties lifted by livestock boom The new technology has enabled farmers adjust to changes in farming methods that allow them to market their organic food. He says they have regional offices in Kiambu, Murang’a, Kericho, Eldoret and Kisumu. This has enabled the company to interact directly with farmers and has so far sold over 1500 units. The new bio digester comes at a time when the Government is strategising on how to make households shift from over relying on kerosene and firewood for cooking, to gas. But, to meet the organic standard, farmers must abandon the use of synthetic pesticides, growth hormones and antibiotics and take other steps to improve soil quality. In organic farming, farmers rely on natural processes, organic fertilisers and biological pest control methods to boost soil fertility or manage pests and diseases. According to a report released in 2014 by researchers from University of Nairobi and Strathmore University; tomatoes, kale (Sukuma wiki), amaranth (mchicha) and mangoes sold in major Kenyan towns have high pesticide residue. Another previous study conducted by Koan found that food sold in common Nairobi markets was laced with excess chemicals above World Health Organisation (WHO) recommended safety levels. ALSO READ:

KIE to boost food security The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) is now also keen on promoting organic agriculture in developing nations.