A.S.K Show still rocks, even for adults [Courtesy] The Nairobi Show – ice cream, hot dogs and merry go-rounds. Those are my lasting childhood memories of one of the biggest annual events (back in the day) in the country. It was so big that school students actually got a whole day off to attend. My cousins and I usually went with our parents on the Saturday and it was something we looked forward to every year. And then it seems as adulthood set in, the show was relegated to the far recesses of the mind as other things took priority. That plus it became a little old-fashioned to attend. I mean, who still does that? Then about four years ago, after a break of more than 10 years, I asked myself why not go and see if the old thrill can be revived? So I made the suggestion to my sister and to my surprise, she picked up on my excitement and said yes! Then began the search for information – was it still held in the same place? What were the entry charges? How should we make the payments? Thankfully, everything we needed was available online and in no time, we were ready for the adventure. Armed with solid walking shoes and big bags in case of any potential purchases, we set off. Apart from several new exhibitors, everything else looked exactly the same. The major difference was that we were now looking at the event through adult eyes. Stands we never visited as children because they were so boring (who wanted to know how to harvest honey or produce yoghurt and cheese?) were now the places we headed straight for, and even took time to listen to the explanations behind various products. We walked and walked, lost our bearings more than once, and walked again, having the time of our lives as we discovered stuff that is made right here. We also shopped until our bags (and shoulders) protested and we decided to call it a day. By that time, the place was packed full of people from all walks of life, including the inevitable school groups (some things never change). We went home feeling very pleased with ourselves, our purchases and the many new contacts we had collected. The next year, we set off again, this time with another sister in tow, and had another good time complete with hotdogs, chips and ice cream! The other sister, an avid gardener, was clearly in heaven when we stopped at a stand selling all manner of seeds. I hung back because gardening is just not my thing, even though she has tried her best to squeeze a farmer out of me. She once came to my house bearing ‘dhania’ seeds that she proceeded to show me how to grow from the comfort of my balcony. She assured me that they were easiest thing to tend and that I could soon – with just a little loving care – start to enjoy the herb fresh out of my own little patch of ‘garden’ instead of spending money at the market. I decided to enjoin our youngest so that we might maybe enjoy a little success (left up to me, there would be none to speak of) together. At first she was diligent about watering and checking the plants but as the days went by, we both forgot about them. By the time I remembered that I was meant to be turning into a city farmer, the poor plants were shrivelled beyond repair and I made my peace about going to the market. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Well, the Nairobi Show, or more accurately, the ASK Nairobi International Trade Fair, was back again last week, and because we hadn’t managed to attend the last two, I was determined not to miss this year’s edition. It was interesting to hear the reactions of friends who I told not to ‘book’ me last Friday because I was going to the show: “You mean it still exists?!?” came from most of them, as they listened rather doubtfully to my assurances that it is a good, pocket-friendly way to spend a few hours, not to mention it provides enough exercise to last you a long time!