 Referendum is a good idea, however, we must be aware it is no panacea for the maladies that face our nation. At the back of our minds we must remember that it is bad leadership that has given birth to what Kenya is today. ALSO READ:

Come clean on fate of suspended officials to save taxpayer funds If you asked the average politician what they have achieved, they point to a few buildings, roads and ambulances - which you may be tempted to applaud them for but you must ask yourself is it an iron snake that we are to celebrate? Is it just development that Kenya lacks? What Kenya needs I tell you what; Kenya needs something far more subtle and which is elusive to achieve. Kenya needs a total mind shift. Kenya needs to meet Jesus like the thief at the cross. For example, if we built hospitals won't we staff them with the same personnel that run our dysfunctional medical system? If we built a new oil pipeline, won't the same wolves eat from it like they have done from others before? Development is a welcome prospect for any nation - however in Kenya for every kilometre of road we lay, a new thieving millionaire is made or an old one gets richer. This is because Kenya has the most expensive roads, bridges, and railway lines per km in the region. Mostly because everyone is a thief, from the land acquisition, to even the contractor to clean up after the construction. Such diseases are not curable by a referendum, necessary as it may be. Kenya, you see, isn’t suffering from kwashiorkor or scurvy from which one can be rid of by providing one food group or another. No, Kenya suffers from marasmus, general malnutrition and we are in need of every nutrient known to man. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Punguza mzigo Referendum and especially the punguza mzigo kind is welcome for the simple reason that it allows for us to reduce the potential wolves that will eat our proverbial national cake. While we are at it, we should allow presidential and gubernatorial candidates to run for other offices simultaneously to allow for us to have their ideas mixed in Parliament and or the county assemblies. This will allow for far more robust debate in our houses, because as things stand now we have nominated MCA’s who have no idea what getting nominated means and what an MCA does. Strange that then that same MCA was trusted to impeach a speaker yet their own competence is glaringly wanting. ALSO READ:

We must be selective about the social welfare model But I digress, Kenya’s diseases do not stop at corruption and theft, it is also about the poverty of moral code and character. Recently President Uhuru Kenyatta had to chide a CS in public for not doing what was right and obvious. Which is a shameful thing to happen. An order from the Commander-in-Chief does not need him to swear and be angry to that level, the CS should have got it the first time and gotten it right. Kiunjuri's moment The fact that Mwangi Kiunjuri, the Agriculture CS is still in office is a sure sign that we have no moral code in our country. How I wish our ancestors practised bushido such that leaders who let down our nation would have the honour to step down. Yet we live in a nation where if our hospitals have no drugs, the CS for Health takes no responsibility, if rhinos die a CS insults us and invites us to take a trip to hell, if road carnage increases the CS does only that which has been done before. The business-as-usual demeanour contradicts with what said when they were being sworn in. Yet I have seen little unusualness unless the president steps in. This is immoral and plainly a robbery of Kenya’s hopes, dreams and aspirations. Imagine if every CS was implementing a grand plan to positively transform this nation, imagine if every CS was working to rid his or her ministry of corruption. If every CS was calling on the DCI to sort out his ministry, if every CS ensured his staff was there on time, doing their work on time and delivering for Kenyans on time. Just these two things would make Kenya a country with efficient, predictable and dependable civil service. The other robbery that happens is the quality of debate and legislation that springs from our Parliament. It is a shame that the over 300 men and women who have the power to change a nation end up changing their cars and lifestyles. They have the power to re-imagine this country as they please, to create a future so bright it will blind us, but alas, they have no new ideas, no new methods just the same old whipping and benchmarking trips. ALSO READ:

State auditor queries doubling of road costs When Njoki was there... The last time Parliament had an exciting bill was during the Justice Njoki Ndung'u Bill on sexual offences and violence. Since then, nothing exciting has come out of Parliament and even our TV stations only tune in for the state of the nation address, the selection of speakers and budget related debates. What’s worse is it is also full of cowards, how many times have you heard MPs say they will table names of the corrupt or terrorists but completely fail to name them all the while enjoying immunity on the floor of the House. What is that immunity for then? Ladies and gentlemen, Kenya has a problem. A singular focus on the referendum will not help this country, we need to take on these challenges as well. We must go hammer and tongs on this nation, otherwise we will have a brand new forest with the same monkeys. Mr Bichachi is a Communication Consultant. bichachi@gmail.com