A plan by some Luhya leaders to have one presidential candidate in 2022 elections may be scuttled after several local politicians threw their weight behind Deputy President William Ruto. Amani National Congress (ANC) leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya have all shown their interest in the Presidency. ALSO READ:

Of Uhuru’s Nandi, Bomet visits and the 2022 succession intrigues And Ruto’s overtures in the region seem to be bearing fruit after a host of leaders, including in Mudavadi’s home turf of Vihiga County, pledged to support him. Over 150 leaders including former councillors, current and former MCAs, businessmen and professionals declared their support for Ruto's in a meeting in Luanda Town yesterday. In last year's polls, the county had 272,409 registered voters. The number is expected to rise to 350,000 by 2022. The lobby group now known as Bunyore, Terik, Tiriki and Maragoli (Buttima for Ruto 2022) said it will not support any of the Luhya leaders saying they have failed the region. Buttima chairman Joseck Ang’ana said they will marshal locals to ensure as many as possible support Ruto's bid, 'since he is the best bet to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022'. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content “Kakamega partly supported Jubilee government and got a Cabinet Secretary slot and National Assembly Chief Whip. Bungoma got Senate Speaker's seat. However, Vihiga which supported NASA 100 per cent go nothing from the coalition. Mudavadi has deserted us despite the fact we supported him," said Ang’ana. Ezekiel Muya, a former councillor, said they will only support a candidate they are sure will win the election. "Ruto’s goal is to make a difference in the lives of Kenyans. He traverses the country launching projects geared towards creating employment for our youths. Our leaders from Western have been in politics for long but have done absolutely nothing,” said Muya. ALSO READ:

Playing Ruto and Raila gives Uhuru space to build legacy