After years of dormancy due to lack of a secretariat and governing legislation, the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb) is being revived. A chief executive officer has been appointed to oversee its operations. ALSO READ:

Moi stirs excitement in Eldoret Former Nandi deputy governor Dominic Biwot will assume the CEO’s office from November 1. Noreb brings together eight counties. Noreb is among the first regional economic blocs formed to enable neighbouring counties to share and exploit their common resources to boost the living standards of their residents. Its inaugural investment conference was held in Eldoret town about three years ago and attracted both local and international exhibitors. However, its policy paper has not been implemented due to lack of legislation to govern it. Top athletes Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 The counties under Noreb are Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Trans Nzoia, West Pokot, Turkana and Samburu. Apart from agriculture, the counties are also rich in minerals and tourism. Some of them are home to some of top athletes. “Absence of a secretariat that is meant to run its day-to-day business made Noreb dull. However, we are planning a governors’ meeting at the end of this week which is expected to fully revamp the operations of Noreb,” said Dr Biwot. During the meeting, he said, the governors would agree on the management structure of the secretariat. They will also discuss the documents to guide the implementation of the bloc’s policies. ALSO READ:

Family held after rifle, bullets are found “We are confident assemblies in the member counties will pass a Bill endorsing the economic bloc and its plans as well as all the necessary legislation,” Biwot told The Standard in Eldoret town yesterday. The structure of the secretariat is expected to include a council made up of county executives, county secretaries, deputy governors and chief officers. Technical teams will be made up of directors.