President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday urged millers to lower the price of Unga in all stores around the country while opening 2018 Nairobi Trade Fair Show at Jamhuri grounds. Uhuru cautioned National Cereals and Produce Board against exploiting maize farmers by not paying them or delaying their payments on their supplied maize. ALSO READ:

Uhuruto should decipher coded online messages "I am warning traders who have been benefiting from the sweat of farmers that as long as I am in charge, that will never happen again. Do that and let us see what will happen to you,’’ the president cautioned. NCPB owes farmers Sh1.4 billion and by Thursday farmers had started getting their stuck dues from the board. President Uhuru urged maize millers to reduce the price of two kilograms of maize from Sh100 to Sh75 arguing that there was more than enough maize in the country’s maize depots. Retailers had claimed that the rise of the price of maize flour by Sh4-Sh8 margin was as a result of implementation of eight percent value added tax on fuel. He said, "By the end of this year, the country will have a stock of 56 million bags against an annual consumption of 52 million bags, this means there will a surplus of four million bags hence significance reduction of a maize flour.’’ The president’s statement was echoed by that of Nairobi governor Mike Sonko saying that any retailer who will be involved in overprizing Unga will face the law with the county withdrawing his or her permit. He said, ‘’ I am hereby warning all supermarkets and shop owners against increasing price of 2 kilogram of maize flour beyond Sh75, if any retailer will be caught doing so, the county will have to revoke his permit. The government has not increased the same.’’ Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Uhuru who was furious over alleged loss of farmers’ money by unscrupulous individuals said, ‘’ I swear before God that if anyone try’s to mess around with farmers’ cash, they will see what will happen to them. Those who took the money must give back.’’ A 2kg Unga was retailing at Sh100 on Thursday across major supermarkets and small kiosks in Nairobi. Uhuru further cautioned traders and retailers against taking advantage of the 8 percent VAT on fuel products to increase the prices of maize flour. ALSO READ:

Why 2018 is rated the worst time to be a farmer The president ended his statement by saying that as a country we have to conquer hunger as this was the vision for those who vote for Kenya’s independence.  