Ms Ruth Kulundu the IEBC Migori County Returning Officer flanked by her deputy Gray Ouko address the press on 18th September 2018. [Photo: Caleb Kingwara, Standard] Authorities have warned candidates in the Migori senatorial by-election of dire consequences as incidents of violence mar the campaigns. ALSO READ:

MP backs Ayacko as campaign heats up Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) Returning Officer Ruth Kulundu yesterday said she would disqualify candidates who incited their supporters to attack opponents as Police Commander Joseph Nthenge said they were investigating the violence. Mr Nthenge said Eddy Oketch of the Federal Party of Kenya (FPK) had recorded a statement that his car was stoned while on the campaign trail in Wuoth Ogik in Suna West on Sunday. Mr Oketch blamed the incident on rivals and requested police protection. "We want the candidates to campaign peacefully. We have assured all of them of security so there should be no cause for alarm," said the police boss. Nthenge also appealed to candidates to not to engage in hate speech. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. "Police in all the eight sub-counties will increase their visibility to ensure peace across the county throughout the campaigns." The police boss said experience from past elections had taught them that most of the violence was perpetrated during last-minute campaigns. Ms Kulundu also disclosed that IEBC had received similar complaints from Oketch, adding that the commission once again intended to summon and warn the senatorial candidates. ALSO READ:

Why Chebukati wants IEBC meetings recorded "They are blaming each other. If both are to blame, we will write warning letters to them." She noted that the other candidates - Ochilo Ayacko (Orange Democratic Movement), Peter Jobando (Green Congress Party), Solomon Hodo (People's Democratic Party) and Samuel Otieno (independent) - were yet to report any inappropriate behaviour. Last Thursday, Mr Ochilo and Oketch met on the campaign trail in Kuria West, where a fight broke out between their supporters. The violence was quashed before it got out of hand. Kulundu said she received complaints from both parties, adding that she had asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to intervene.