1. Alcohol intake Fatty liver disease (FLD) is the most common liver disease. There are two types of FLD; alcoholic fatty liver disease (AFLD) and non- alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). ALSO READ:

Kenyans most unfit, unhealthy in East Africa As the name suggests, alcoholic fatty liver disease occurs as a result of excessive alcohol intake. After drinking an alcoholic drink, the liver breaks it down so that it can be removed from the body. In the process of breaking down alcohol, the body produces chemicals that are harmful to the liver cells. Over time, these chemicals damage liver cells and more fat is stored in the liver instead of being transported to respective fat cells. Fatty liver disease is greatly associated with cirrhosis and some types of liver cancer. 2. Plant-based foods Increased intake of plant based foods is associated with reduced risk of many non-communicable diseases including fatty liver disease. In a study published in March 2018 by the American Gastroenterological Association journal, people who adhere to a diet primarily consisting of plant based foods such whole grains, nuts, legumes, fruits and vegetables are at least 26 per cent less likely to develop fatty liver disease compared to people with lower consumption of plant-based foods. 3. Antioxidant-rich foods Natural body processes produces harmful compounds known as free radicals that can harm body cells causing chronic conditions like cancer and fatty liver diseases. Anti-oxidants are found in certain foods and help scavenge these compounds preventing excessive damage to liver cells and other cells in the body. Foods rich in antioxidants include berries, nuts, fruits and vegetables. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. 4. Highly processed foods Processed foods are often high in simple sugars and fats but low in fibre. Processed foods are associated with increased risk of diabetes and obesity, conditions that are strongly associated with fatty liver diseases. Processed foods contain many chemicals in form of preservatives, flavours and colour which force the liver to work extra hard to eliminate them. This process can increase the amount of free radicals in the body or interfere with the liver’s ability to process fat. 5. Overweight ALSO READ:

Study: Gays are heavier drinkers Obesity is a risk factor of many chronic diseases. Even though the mechanism is not yet clear, fatty liver disease most often affects people who are overweight and obese. Consistent physical exercises and a healthy diet helps greatly in maintain a healthy weight consequently reducing a person’s risk of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. 