Our legendary marathon champion has had a colourful and flawless record in his athletics history. He has won a raft of competitions in international races in major world cities thus becoming one of the most decorated marathoners this century. A peep into his life provides lessons in life from many perspectives. In a month’s time, around 1.7 million candidates will be sitting for both the KCSE and KCPE exams. These candidates, their teachers, parents and other stakeholders have a lot to get from Kipchoge’s  victories in excelling in the forthcoming examinations. ALSO READ:

Kipchoge has extra-ordinary muscular and mental strength – renowned athletics coach The truth is that success in examination for a candidate is usually a systems approach where there are several integral parts. By now, most of these have done their parts except for the key ones. Of course, the key elements remain the teachers and the candidates. I assume that the teachers have by now adequately prepared the candidates by over and above all, covering the syllabuses and psychologically building the candidates’ morale to face the examinations. Today I want to use Kipchoge’s example in the candidates’ passing of the forthcoming examinations. Which are some of the things we can learn from this decorated marathoner? Self-discipline Self-discipline is key to success. Kipchoge wakes up early to practice. As he goes through the practice he follows the rules strictly. He also obeys his coach and does not engage in anything untoward to the goal he has set to achieve. Candidates need to be self-disciplined to do well in exams. You should not put teachers and your parents to follow you wherever you are to do the right thing. Obey the school rules and routine to succeed in the forthcoming exams. Avoid  violating any examination regulations: Do not cheat in any way. Remember, every choice has a consequence. Some very painful in life. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Kipchoge is a very simple man. Simplicity makes one to be focused on what he or she is doing. Do not complicate things. Relate well with your teachers, fellow students and other members of the school community. Obey your teachers and fellow students. Even as a candidate and the senior member in the school, still do all your duties. Being simple has the potential of giving you a peaceful mind -something that is a fertile ground for learning. Passing examinations demands that one takes his or her work seriously. To reach the nadir of his career, Kipchoge has all along taken his work seriously. He practices all the time and does not allow anything to come between himself and his practice. Aside from this, he has a notebook in which he records every workout he undertakes. In total, he has accumulated 15 notebooks in the 15 years he has been in the practice. As a candidate you need to have a notebook from which you note all important things you revise. Make sure that you highlight the issues you don’t understand well. Give these more attention in your subsequent studies. Remember that you will not have another chance in life to sit for the same examination. Give the preparation all your best. Enjoy whatever you are reading and be consistent in what you are doing. Prepare for the exams from as early as possible. ALSO READ:

How Eliud Kipchoge’s record has set the stage for faster marathons Read widely, keep a notebook Do this by reading extensively, practicing what you have read, consulting your teachers and colleagues from time to time on areas that are gray to you. Make sure that you acclimatize with the language and form of examinations. Work without play makes jack a dull boy. Take time out to play. This illustrates the essence of not overworking yourself in whatever you seek to do. Kipchoge does not push himself beyond 80-90 per cent tops -of his maximum effort during training. He reserves all his energy for the race day. Little wonder he is wont to say: ”I want to run with a relaxed mind” As a candidate, you should rest from reading. Do not read from morning to evening. Spare your time to participate in co-curricular activities and other leisurely activities. Kipchoge, for example, is also an avid reader. He enjoys books on philosophy, sports biographies and self-motivational books. Whenever you do this, it allows you to refresh and regain the energy and focus to study again. Take your time to chat with other students on various issues as you laugh and talk. On the day of examination, release all your energy for the exercise. As you sit for the exam, be calm and focused. Do not panic. Take your time to read the instructions and the questions before you tackle the exams. Obey all the examination rules. ALSO READ:

Berlin Marathon Women’s Champion jets back into the country [Photos] Have a timetable Remember we all come from different backgrounds. Let your background not inhibit your dreams. Nothing is permanent in life. If you are from a poor background, trust that you have an opportunity to change your status by doing well and confirming to the world that education is an equaliser. On the other hand, if you are from a well-to-do background remember that you can even make it better by succeeding in your exams. Moreover, your status might change leaving you with only what you get from your hard work today. Time management is a handmaid of success. You can’t succeed in your examinations if you don’t manage your time well. Have a personal timetable which should guide your schedule as a candidate. This timetable should not conflict with the official school one. It should only cover the hours outside the school one. Follow your timetable religiously. Let none or very few disruptions interfere with it. Ultimately, remember that you are like Kipchoge. Competing against a host of people from diverse areas. It is your effort that will make you win the race. Kipchoge once wrote down a formula : MOTIVATION + DISCIPLINE = CONSISTENCY… be guided by this gem from the world’s longest distance runner at the moment. The gems from this icons’ life are critical in making you succeed in the forthcoming examinations. Good luck. Dr Ndaloh teaches in the School of Education at Moi University ndaloagumba@yahoo.com 