Dr Dulcie Wanda (in white dust coat) attends to Jessica Saziru, a cancer patient at Oncology unit at Nakuru Level Five hospital. OCTOBER 14, 2018. [PHOTO: MERCY KAHENDA] Cancer patients can now get chemotherapy services at the Rift Valley Provincial General Hospital’s new oncology unit. ALSO READ:

Gang attacks four family members leaving one dead Before the unit was built, most cancer patients sought treatment at the Kenyatta National Hospital (KNH) and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH). Since May, 2,156 patients have been received at the unit, according to the Oncology Department medical officer, Dulcie Wanda. “The oncology unit has been a relief to cancer patients who used to travel to the national facility for chemotherapy services. They would be placed on long waiting lists,” said Dr Wanda. The unit has 10 chemotherapy seats and is manned by an oncologist, a medical officer, a pharmacist, four nurses and a physiotherapist. The unit has the capacity to serve at least 30 patients a day. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “We receive patients who have been screened and found to have cancer. Screening is done at the facility. This has made management of cancer easier,” she said. Jessica Saziru from Njoro sub-county is among patients who have been receiving treatment at the facility. She was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2013. Long wait ALSO READ:

Obado moved to KNH general ward The patient, whose breast was removed, has had two chemotherapy sessions. She said the new cancer unit had saved her travel expenses to referral facilities. John Gicheru from Naivasha is now able to walk and eat on his own after undergoing his fifth chemotherapy session. “I am happy that I am able to walk and can also drive myself after being placed on chemotherapy,” said Mr Gicheru. Anne Wangui, who was diagnosed with cancer of the colon, is now able to get chemotherapy at the facility. She used to go to KNH, where she would wait for long to be treated. The 71-year-old is expected to undergo 12 chemo sessions and has so far received two. Wanda said plans were underway to establish a radiography department. The doctor said patients who required radiotherapy services were usually referred to MTRH and KNH. ALSO READ:

County yet to procure Hepatitis B vaccines as residents suffer The National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) covers cancer treatment at the facility. Nakuru NHIF manager Wambugu Kariuki said the fund had an oncology package that covered radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Mr Kariuki said NHIF covered up to 20 radiotherapy sessions. NHIF also provides basic chemotherapy that covers up to Sh25,000 per session and one can go up to six sessions that are fully covered by NHIF. Advanced chemotherapy takes up to Sh150,000 per session. “We encourage Kenyans to enrol for NHIF to be able to afford quality treatment,” said Mr Kariuki. Common cancers In Nakuru, 210 cancer patients died in 2016, with the most common cancer being cervical, with 17 patients. According to medical records, most other patients died from breast, prostate, uterine and ovarian cancers. A survey by the University of Nairobi in 2015 showed that around 5,000 people in Nakuru suffered from cancer. ALSO READ:

Serial defiler referred to Mathare Mental Hospital for mental assessment The study, conducted in 22 showed that the predominant cancer in women was breast followed by cervical. Men mostly suffered from throat and prostate cancers. 