Police march in their new uniform during the launch at the Kenya School of Government in Nairobi on 13 September, 2018. [Photo: Cyrus Ombati] President Kenyatta says the recent integration of the Regular and Administration police formations is aimed at improving efficiency in service delivery and ending impunity. ALSO READ:

No more monkey business as OCSs take full control The President told the new joint police force to work with dignity and redeem its image from tags of being the “most corrupt” to being the “most respected” institution in the land. “This is a new service that should have no place for impunity. It serves Kenyans equally and ensure that those that need punishment are punished with respect to the law", said Kenyatta. He said the first mandate of the police is to serve Kenyans and make the country the most secure, to safeguard and attract investments. “The most desirable attitude in policing is that the public comes first. This attribute, coupled with integrity, is, indeed, key to maintaining, on a lasting basis, security and safety in society,” said the President. He said the new housing arrangement for police officers will restore pride and dignity in the force. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. When the new National Police Service Housing Policy is implemented, officers will enjoy accommodation under various categories including houses owned by the NPS, in estates and apartments, houses in police institutions and police lines and shift quarters. Others will be accommodated in gated residential areas and in stand-alone apartment blocks He spoke in Nairobi Tuesday when he received both outgoing commissioners of the National Police Service Commission (NPSC) and the former Independent Police Oversight Authority (IPOA) board. ALSO READ:

Tax and death The President also received exit reports from the two agencies and four policy documents from the NPSC on housing, training and development, welfare, and psychological counselling of officers. Kenyatta said the establishment of both NPSC and IPOA six years ago ushered in a new policing era in Kenya characterized by modern equipment, new training curriculum and highly motivated, transparent and accountable service men and women. The President said the NPSC had also achieved key milestones during the first term of its existence. Kenyatta said the commission had succeeded in putting in place a rigorous vetting process for officers, fostering cordial relations with various stakeholders and engaged fruitfully with the National Assembly, the Civil Society, the Police Reforms Steering Committee and a number of international organizations. The NPSC also put in place mechanism to evaluate senior officers to determine their competencies and suitability for promotion. The President said the recommendations made by the commission will go a long way in clarifying and simplifying command and control to improve accountability and performance. “They will make our police more than equal to the threats to our Nation,” Kenyatta added. ALSO READ:

VAT on fuel a good example of conspiracy against middle class He congratulated IPOA for an excellent job in executing its wide-ranging mandate that positively contributed to a significant improvement in policing despite having no previous institution to compare with. The President acknowledged that during its first six-year tenure, IPOA put in place structures, policies regulations and established its headquarters and opened regional offices across the country. “IPOA exists as a safeguard against police misconduct. To that extent I need to re-emphasize my administration’s support in this endeavor, and we applaud your work,” the President told the commissioners. IPOA conducted 760 investigations, took some to court and made key recommendations during its first six years. He promised full government support to both IPOA and the NPSC to continue executing their critical mandate. President Kenyatta applauded Cabinet Secretary for Interior and Coordination of National Government Dr Fred Mating’i and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet who were present for their leadership and good working relationship with the outgoing commissioners. On his part, Dr Mating’i said his efforts are aimed at interpreting the president’s vision on security through a collaborative and consultative security sector. Exiting NPSC chairman Johnstone Kavuludi said the stagnation of officers will now be a thing of the past under the new guidelines Former IPOA chairman Njeru Macharia , who is being replaced by Ms Anne Makori, said his organization had been highly rated by various international and continental institutions. ALSO READ:

Importers protest oil seizure Njeru said IPOA had been consulted by South Africa, Egypt, Zimbabwe, Senegal and Tunisia with the aim of revitalizing their own institutions.