St Lucy School for the Blind in Igoji has run out of funds to cater for its 265 children. School administrator Judith Khavengwesi said they had no money food, healthcare or workers' salaries. The school caters for children with low vision, total blindness, multiple disabilities and even terminal illnesses. Forty-two of the children have albinism. “Some, in addition to visual impairment, are also physically and intellectually challenged,” said Sister Khavengwesi. The school owes suppliers Sh3.5 million and most are hesitant to deliver more food and other essential items. To compound matters, the school’s 26-seater bus, which is used to take the children to Kikuyu Eye Hospital, has been detained at a garage in Nkubu town. “The bus needed an overhaul and to be painted yellow as ordered by former Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i. We use it to take the children to eye clinics but unfortunately we can't because it is being held over an outstanding bill of Sh528, 000,” she said. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Suppliers of maize, beans and green grams are owed Sh800, 000. Most of the 72 totally blind children do not have white canes to aid their movement. Further, the school does not have enough braille machines and other learning materials. Annual fees “Usually we depend on the Sh24, 000 parents and guardians pay in annual fees but it is a big burden to them because they come from under-privileged backgrounds. Grants from the Government are not usually forthcoming,” she said. “Three-quarters (of the children) come from really poor backgrounds. Some parents died while others abandoned their children because of the stigma associated with disability; meaning they are unable to pay school fees. The school comes to a standstill when we don’t receive grants from Government and whatever parents bring,” she said. Solomon Bukhala, head of Education and Rehabilitation at Kenya Institute of Special Education, said schools such as St Lucy were suffering because of delays by the Ministry of Education in disbursing funds as well as withdrawal of donor support.