Prince William landed in Laikipia yesterday, where he visited the British Army Training Unit Kenya (Batuk) in Nanyuki. The Duke of Cambridge, who looked at ease clad in military fatigues, touched down at the military base in a blue charter helicopter at 9am before joining the troops in their training. ALSO READ:

Centum’s Mworia to head new Laikipia authority He also visited the 1st Battalion Irish Guards Battlegroup, who are training under Batuk. He also serves as colonel of the regiment. This is the second time in three years that the 36-year-old British royal is visiting Kenya. He has been on a tour of Africa that also saw him visit Namibia. The second in line to the British throne was last in Kenya in 2016. He visited State House. Yesterday, Prince William later engaged in a corporate social responsibility exercise at Ol Maisor Primary School in Sosian, where he handed out sports equipment, shoes and uniforms donated by the military to pupils. Sources familiar with his visit also revealed that the military would construct classrooms and drill boreholes in the school's compound. Also present at the event was Defence Cabinet Secretary Raychelle Omamo, Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi and Laikipia North MP Sarah Korere. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 10,000 soldiers About 10,000 British soldiers train in Olmaisor in Sossian and Ol Daiga every year as the arid countryside is said to be ideal for their exercises. Batuk pumps about Sh2 billion yearly into the Nanyuki economy through rates, rent and licenses. Other projects undertaken by the military installation in Laikipia include construction of roads, offering employment to locals and educating poor children through their education initiatives. ALSO READ:

Centum CEO James Mworia lands county job The British army, in consultation with the local community, has identified other key areas through which they offer support. Local leaders praised Prince William for visiting, saying security and calm had been restored in the county after scores of local and foreign investors complained of being victims of banditry and cattle rustling. 