The events of September 11, 2011 are still fresh in Antony Kiarie’s mind. He used to enjoy drinking chang’aa (local brew) with other revelers as they discussed issues touching on their Gitambaya village in Kiambu County. But a drink sold at Sh30 per jug changed his life following the death of 12 people who had consumed the illicit brew at the local pub popularly known as Mtongwe bar or “Kings Pub”. “On that fateful day, my friend had no money and I therefore purchased one jug at Sh30. I drank with him from the same jug but he died. It was very shocking and I thought I was next,” he said. He said before his friend died, he complained of severe stomach pains the same symptoms that Kiarie had also developed. Vision was blurred “My friend said it felt like a panga was cutting him in the stomach. He was in a lot of pain. I was so scared after he died since I was certain that I was going to be the next,” narrated Kiarie who is the only surviving victim. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Inside the bar operated by Jennifer Wanjiru Nganga alias “Mama Flora, Mama Mwangi or Mama Kabiri,” other revellers also started complaining of stomach pains. Writhing in pain, they complained of severe stomach pains, blurred vision, chest pain and vomited as they called for help which unfortunately did not come quickly for eight victims, - Jane Wambui Kamau alias Wa Kamau, Festus David Nzuki, David Karanja Nduati, Samuel Waweru Wanjiku, James Mwita Wanjiku alias Fracis Mwita, Julius Kariuki Mwangi, Joseph Ndichu Kamau and Stephen Nzuki. Those strong enough managed to walk to Ruiru Police Station and reported about the lethal brew that had claimed lives of some revellers. Speaking to Sunday Standard, Kiarie said well-wishers rushed him and other victims to Ruiru Level 4 hospital. He was admitted to hospital for two days during which time his vision was blurred. However, even after being discharged, Kiarie who testified in court against Mama Flora as prosecution witness number 15, said he felt light headed for a week. The 38-year-old father of two said despite being rushed to hospital his 10 drinking buddies succumbed and only two remained fighting for their lives in hospital. The two died years later due to health complications attributed to consumption of the illicit brew. Kiarie who quit drinking alcohol thanks God for saving his life. He says although he fully regained his eyesight, he developed health complications due to consumption of the killer brew. The motor vehicle driver has been unable to get a job and engages in casual jobs to fend for his family. He faulted the government for failure to honour the promise to compensate victims of the killer brew. “Seven years after what happened, we are yet to see any compensation from the government. “No one has ever received any penny and it could be good if the promise was honoured so that I can get money to seek proper medical attention,” he said. On September 28, Court of Appeal reduced Mama Flora’s charge from murder to manslaughter, a development that saw her sentence turned from death to 15 years in prison. No ill intention Appellate Judges Patrick Kiage and Agnes Murgor declared that according to evidence adduced before the High Court, the woman had no intention of killing her customers or causing grievous harm by selling chang’aa. “We are satisfied that the evidence did prove that the appellant was guilty of manslaughter through any one or a combination of the unlawful and dangerous act of selling illicit brew laced with dangerous amounts of methanol; gross negligence or subjective recklessness as to the danger that the brew exposed its drinkers to. We therefore quash the convictions on the charges of murder and substitute therefor convictions for manslaughter,” said Justice Kiage. Pathologists who conducted postmortem on six bodies said the cause of the deaths was poison and reports from the Government Chemist also indicated that four of the deceased persons had various levels of methanol and the other two contained ethanol. 