Mandera Governor Ali Roba (third right) and Mandera North MP Bashir Abdullahi (right) in Rhamu, Mandera, on Sunday. [Boniface Okendo, Standard] Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and five governors will today attend a conference on forced radicalisation of students. ALSO READ:

Police alert: Al Shabaab planning major attack in Mandera The meeting comes amid revelations that Al Shabaab abducts young people in the northeastern counties of Wajir, Garissa and Mandera and takes them to Somalia. The radicalised youths are later used to launch terror attacks in the border counties. CS Matiang’i, governors Ali Roba (Mandera), Mohamed Mahmud (Marsabit), Ali Korane (Garissa), Mohamed Abdi (Wajir) and Mohamed Kuti (Isioli) will open a two-day conference in Mandera on “deradicalisation, prevention and countering violent extremism”. Yesterday, Governor Roba said the region had suffered greatly at the hands of terrorists, describing the increased attacks as a crisis. “It is a crisis that strikes at our very heart and soul and threatens the spirit of our existence,” he said. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content He noted that Wajir, Garissa and Mandera counties had lost many lives to terrorism. “The worst attack was at Garissa University College... In the first two years of devolution (2013-2014), Mandera town alone was exposed to 119 attacks,” he said. Non-local teachers ALSO READ:

Fears of police killings as state loses terror cases The porous borders the county shared with Somalia, he noted, had exposed it greatly. He called for the completion of the border security wall. Mr Roba said besides launching direct attacks, Al Shabaab has succeeded in setting locals against non-locals. The county boss said by killing non-local teachers, the terrorists had managed to cripple learning in the region. And by killing non-local health workers, the terrorists had managed to cripple health service provision. “By killing non-local quarry workers they have successfully managed to bring down the entire construction industry, which is a major economic opportunity directly and indirectly employing thousands of Mandera residents,” said the governor. East African Community Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed, Sports Chief Administrative Secretary Hassan Noor Hassan, the region’s political leaders and security experts will attend the conference. Separately, a senator has tabled a Bill aimed at boosting the war against terrorism. ALSO READ:

Shabaab kill two teachers, burn their bodies and office The Prevention of Terrorism (Amendment) Bill, 2018, by Nominated Senator Naomi Waqo seeks to introduce stringent measures to curb radicalisation of students. The Bill wants the County Education Board to formulate specific programmes to counter radicalisation in learning institutions. It also wants a standardised curriculum to be taught in all learning institutions. Held liable Mr Waqo has proposed that the measures be implemented by the Education ministry in collaboration with the relevant State agencies. The Bill further proposes that the Interior Cabinet secretary, the Inspector General of Police and other security stakeholders design amnesty programmes and regulations to cater for radicalised students. “The Bill is expected to ensure that institution administrators are tasked with ensuring the safety of learners. In addition, the institution administrator will be held liable for radicalisation of learners under their care,” it reads.   ALSO READ:

Matiang'i to meet security chiefs over schools security