A stray lion was captured in Gilgil.[Photo:Courtesy] Residents of Eburru village in Gilgil sub-county can now sleep soundly after a lion that had strayed onto their farms, killing livestock, was captured by Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) officers. ALSO READ:

More families bury snake bite victims as weather warms up The lion from Lake Nakuru National Park was trapped hours after killing two dairy cattle in Eburru and Nagum. It is suspected that there are three other lions still on the loose. Delamere Farm has lost 90 head of cattle to the wild cats this year. According to local Maendeleo ya Wanawake chairperson Lydia Nyota, the game rangers caught the giant lioness early yesterday morning. Ms Nyota said the animal had caused a lot of panic. “We are happy that our lives can continue normally. The animal was a threat especially because we could not tell where it would raid next,” she said. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Several incidents Nyota added that there had been several incidents of wild animal invasions, especially from private conservancies, that had resulted in destroyed crops in the semi-arid area. “We hardly get enough rainfall to sustain a whole planting season but we are expecting a bumper harvest. However, our joy could be cut short if the wild animals continue invading our farms,” she said. ALSO READ:

Residents burn KWS office after elephant kills boy Another farmer, Joyce Waithera, called on KWS to work closely with the owners of the conservancies to make sure that the animals were restrained. “We will not sit and watch the destruction going on and might resort to taking the law into our own hands to deal with the animals in the best way we know how,” she said. Deputy County Commissioner Mutheki Ndambuki said the lioness had been returned to the park. “We are glad that although several animals fell prey to the lioness, no human life was lost. We also thank residents for co-operating with the officers involved in the exercise,” he said.