Twiga believes that our success depends on the supply of high quality fruit and vegetable products that meet or exceed customer expectations. Fundamental to this belief is the responsibility to ensure reasonable measures are taken to safeguard the food safety of all products that Twiga sells. Twiga is committed to continually enhance the reputation of the fruits and vegetables it sells. Twiga seeks to be the market leader when it comes to food safety. The company strives to maintain consumer confidence in its products through the development and implementation of quality and food safety systems, standards and practices. All Twiga operations commit to continuous improvement, which is measured, evaluated and validated for effectiveness through internal audits. ALSO READ:

Tap into new technologies, farmers told Furthermore, Twiga is engaging with the World Bank Food Safety Advisory Team to implement an enhanced Food Safety Management System throughout our supply chain. This includes adding Minimum Residue Levels testing to our processes, a first for the Kenyan domestic market. Twiga believes that in the execution of their duties and their relationships with stakeholders, each employee is responsible for achieving our quality standards. Food safety is the responsibility of all employees that have direct influence on sourcing, transporting, processing, storing and selling of products. The following food safety and quality principles are the foundation of Twiga’s commitment to quality: •             Ensure sustainable food safety and quality performance through implementation and certification of food traceability systems compliant with Agricultural and Food Authority (AFA) local marketing agent standards •             Maintain quality control guidelines, food safety handling manuals and train employees on food safety management •             Build internal food safety capability through systematic programmes that develop technical skills, manage risk and drive increasing levels of excellence Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. •             Include food safety and quality improvement strategies in the annual budget planning processes to ensure that food safety remains a fundamental component of operations •             Continually review food safety policies, standards and procedures including but not limited to local and global good agricultural practices (G.A.P.) to effectively manage food safety risks in our supply chain as we work towards forming a Kenya G.A.P. standard •             Set measurable food safety and quality objectives for all operations to ensure continuous improvement and take appropriate corrective actions when necessary ALSO READ:

Transform Kenya- Food for All •             Communicate food safety standards to our suppliers by disseminating information on good agronomic practices •             Communicate food safety and quality improvement strategies to our customers •             Be transparent when it comes to Twiga Food’s post-harvest handling practices •             Engage government and regulatory bodies actively to enhance food safety measures and oversight •             I am committed to the Food Safety Policy which is owned and endorsed by the Twiga Foods Board of Directors. Responsibility for the successful implementation of this policy belongs with every Twiga Foods employee at each level and function in the organisation. The author is the Chief Executive officer, Twiga Foods ALSO READ:

Transform Kenya Forum kicks off on a high