UPDATE: The candidates have been able to write their exams after the situation was handled. Reprieve for the 17 KCPE candidates whose examination materials 'disappeared' while on transit as education officials issued them with photocopied examinations. Area County Education Officer James Nyaga confirmed that the candidates sat for their examinations albeit late at 10:10am and were not affected by the hitch. "We as education officials and KNEC did all we had to do all we can to ensure that all the 17 candidates are not affected. As we speak the candidates are undertaking their examinations like the rest in the country, "said the education officials. As at now,the head teacher Ann Kirui is leading the police in the search for the missing examination materials. More info later... Seventeen KCPE candidates at Olenamuka Primary School in Narok North are going through anxious moments after their examination papers mysteriously went 'missing' while on transit. According to area County Police Commander Thomas Ngeiywa, the Kiswahili, Insha and Science papers went missing while being transported to the school after they were head picked from a container at Olokurto at around 4am. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content "It was around 4am when eight head teachers picked up their papers while being escorted by police in one vehicle. When two teachers alighted from the vehicle,  one of them realised she didn't have her materials," said the County police boss. Following the incident, Police in Narok are holding a head teacher identified as Ann Kirui. "She (the suspect) is telling police that she doesn't know how the consignment went missing with her belongings. She is now in our custody," said Ngeiywa. Ngeiywa said police are investigating the matter and consider it to be is foul play. "We have instructed all officers to look for the materials but we're yet to trace them meaning there must have been foul play in the incident," he said. By the time of going to press, security teams led by Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya and area CCIO Zachary Kariuki were holed up in a crisis meeting at the school over the issue.