The who’s who of Kenya’s politics played a role in the botched Sh6 trillion Mrima Hill mining deal whose cancellation threatened to cost taxpayers billions of shilling in damages. Detailed witness statements of Cortec Mining Kenya Limited managing director David Anderson and his chair Donald O’Sullivan reveal the intense lobbying and political machinations that went towards the licensing of mining for the niobium and rare earth at Mrima Hills in Kwale County. ALSO READ:

Uhuru, Raila: From foes to friends, a year later The details in the statements include dates and venues where the global mining firm’s directors met and persuaded the country’s top leadership to grant them a 21-year licence. They are now part of the record of the case filed at a United States (US) international business dispute tribunal, which Kenyan government won. In the suit, Cortec, a firm associated with the late businessman Jacob Juma and Stirling Capital, was seeking Sh200 billion claim against the Kenyan government for cancellation of its licences. In the affidavits obtained by the Sunday Standard, President Uhuru Kenyatta, his predecessor Mwai Kibaki, opposition leader Raila Odinga and then minister for Environment were caught up in the high-stakes lobbying for the permit. High powered delegation Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Days after President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn-in for his first term, a high powered delegation of Cortec leadership flew to Mombasa and caught up with him at State House in Mombasa. The date was April and in the entourage were Cortec chair, his managing director, their local partner, Juma, a Ms Jacqueline O’Sullivan and a director, Darren Townsend. President Kenyatta, the affidavits claim, told the Cortec team that his new government would encourage a vibrant mining industry. The meeting was also attended by then principal secretary Mutea Iringo and Commissioner of Mines Moses Masibo. ALSO READ:

Playing Ruto and Raila gives Uhuru space to build legacy But it is perhaps the role of Raila in his days as Prime Minister that showed how Cortec played their game of using the top government officials to influence the awarding of the licence. Anderson claims that after a January 2010 meeting with Raila, the Cortec team left happy with the progress made. The meeting between Raila and the Cortec top management was organised by then Lunga Lunga MP Omar Zonga on January 7, 2010. During the meeting held at Raila’s office, a Commissioner of Mines, a Mr Rop, was summoned and told to ensure Cortec was given the permit and an enabling environment to operate in Mrima Hills. After that meeting Rop managed to renew for Cortec the SPL licence a month later. “I recall that the interaction between Raila and Rop was strained, with the PM asking Commissioner of Mines why obstacles were being put in an investor’s way,” reads Anderson’s affidavit. Very happy “As direct owners of the licence, O’Sullivan and I were very happy with the extension and support that the project was receiving.” The statement went ahead to claim that then Minister for Environment, the late John Michuki, was very pivotal in ensuring Cortec got a Special Mining Licence (SML). ALSO READ:

Growth futile in face of rising cost of living In his encounter with Michuki, Anderson says they even travelled together to Mrima Hills and during the trip, the minister endorsed the mining project and told the area residents the same. After their meeting with Raila, not taking anything for granted, Anderson and O’Sullivan flew to Perth, Australia in October 2011 and met Kibaki during the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM). “His excellency Kibaki expressed strong support for our activities at Mrima Hills and told us that we should contact the Permanent Secretary of Foreign Affairs if we need any assistance on the deal,” Anderson says. Later, however, National Environment Management Authority denied the company the licence to do the actual mining. In winning the case, Kenya’s lead lawyer Kamau Karori had argued that the mining licence was void to the extent that its award did not follow applicable law. jngetich@standardmedia.co.ke