No matter the level of grievances, overt disrespect to the Head of State by elected leaders is unacceptable. Chapter 6 of the Kenya Constitution 2010 binds all leaders to a code of conduct that demands decorum; conduct that does not bring dishonour and disrepute to the offices they hold. Yet that demand did not stop a few MPs from Bomet from walking out on the president at the Lake Basin Economic Bloc Conference in Bomet on Monday this week. This was an economic forum bringing together governors from 14 counties seeking ways of empowering their people. ALSO READ:

The President is right, government has failed SMEs  If there was a compelling reason for such rashness, perhaps these leaders would have had the sympathy of the public, but there was none, save for the lame excuse they had been denied an opportunity to address attendees and present a petition on behalf of their people to the president. At best, such a claim is trite, if only because a presidential function is not the only forum at which elected leaders can address their people’s plight. The three functions at Bomet were not open political gatherings where the president could receive petitions. If there were burning issues to be addressed, the MPs should have sought an appointment with the president. Breaking away and crying foul was not a smart move even if they had been ignored as they claim. Good leaders know there is always a next time. Indeed, the MPs lost an opportunity to secure an appointment where they would get the president's attention. What their despicable action succeeded in doing was expose them as self-seekers and sore losers keen to advance their political agenda and not that of the people. Leaders worth their salt will not wait for the president to visit their areas to articulate issues that vex those they represent. Ineffective leaders will wait for the political stage to explain away their inadequacies by blaming someone or at worst, draw pleasure from being seen around the president or his deputy, just to drive their sense of self-worth. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content As the president has so often urged, let us for the moment shun politics and concentrate on developing the country. Our politics breed division and hate and so any chance to avoid it should not be ignored. The MPs did not heed the president's plea and should therefore be called out for that.