A one day training on fundamentals of profesionalism in hospitality, travel and tourism will be held in Mombasa County on November 16, 2018. Making the announcement, Tourism Proffesional Association (TPA) Secretary,Mr Sam Ikwaye said that among thematic areas , policies and practices of responsible and sustainable tourism essentials in protecting children from sexual exploitation will be deliberated. ''Practical solutions for implementation will be arrived at,'' Ikwaye said. The meeting will be held at the Voyager Beach Resort and Spa. ''Over the decade, the issue of sexual exploitation of children in travel and tourism has become more frequent in news reports, while numerous research papers and specialists analyses have been, and are being, devoted to it vis-à-vis an apparent growth of the phenomenon,'' Ikwaye said. He said that in Kenya, the call for protection of children from sexual exploitation culminated in enactment of laws by the Government of Kenya and signing as well as adherence to the six tenets of the code for protection of children against sexual exploitation by member associations in travel and tourism. These include the Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (Kahc), Kenya Association of Tour Operators (Kato) and the Kenya Coast Tourist Association (Kcta) formerly Mombasa and Coast Tourist Association (Mcta). Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Ikwaye said that despite these efforts, and probably due to minimal empirical data on tangible outcomes of the efforts, sexual exploitation of children is reported to be on the rise within the coastal tourism circuit further negating ongoing initiatives to revamp the region as the preferred tourism destination. An Africa Conference on Child Protection in Travel and Tourism held in Durban South Africa on 7th May 2018 while acknowledging strides made in protecting children also noted a number of challenges which continue to hinder the full realization of the Code requirements by sector players. Member countries were challenged to enhance their efforts in implementing best practices and resolved to renew their efforts and commitment. Among the resolutions was the need to empower professionals within the industry who were identified as a key resource and link in curbing the vice.