Kenyans from all walk of lives thronged their county and sub-county headquarters to hear from their leaders during the Mashujaa Day celebrations. Across the counties there was pomp and colour and little drama as leaders and residents danced, received commendation and celebrated Kenyan heroes. ALSO READ:

Uhuru takes charge of coffee sector reforms committee The national celebrations were for the first time held in Kakamega County and was graced by President Uhuru Kenyatta and several dignitaries, including Namibian President Hage Geingob accompanied by his wife, First Lady Monica Geingob, and the opposition leaders. At the counties, leaders took the opportunity to address hundreds of residents about the need for unity, referendum and other relevant issues in their regions. In Kilifi, Governor Amason Kingi accompanied by county commissioner Magu Mtindika honoured 54 elders who participated in the annual 54km peace walk in parts of the county, preaching peace and advocating for the Mijikenda community to end the butchering of elders and other crimes by youths. Kingi waded into the raging referendum debate and said it was premature for politicians to go for each other’s throats on the issue of the plebiscite. “There’s a committee in place that has been mandated to go round the country to get views from wananchi and present a report with recommendations. If it recommends that need to amend the constitution through a referendum then we can as politicians start because the issues will be very clear,” said Kingi. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content He said any debate on a referendum was at this moment prejudicial to the work of the committee. In Mombasa, hundreds of residents turned out in the six sub-counties to celebrate the day, with calls for Kenyans to foster peaceful co-existence. At Tononoka grounds, leaders led by MPs Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Senator Mohamed Faki called on the residents to emulate President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga and unite. “There is a problem of unemployment but it is not the excuse for youths to engage in crime. The youth should come together and take advantage of funds set aside by the government to start businesses,” said Faki. ALSO READ:

President Uhuru’s Mashujaa Day speech Mboko urged political leaders to stop engaging in divisive politics and join hands to better Kenyans’ lives. And though their was much agreement among the leaders in Mombasa, in Taita-Taveta County, leaders differed publicly over the ownership of the controversial Salaita Hill. Taveta MP Naomi Shaban, County Assembly Deputy Speaker Chrispus Tondoo and Mboghonyi MCA Jones Maskuji argued in public over the historical site during the celebrations in Taveta town. Historical site Governor Granton Samboja and County Commissioner Rodah Onyancha watched in disbelief as Shaban, Tondoo and Maskuji clashed over the 150-acre historical site belonging to former MP Basil Criticos, who has the title deed. Trouble started when Tondoo and Maskuji said they would lead the residents to reclaim the land, which they claimed was illegally acquired by Criticos. “Salaita site was grabbed by the legislator and it is time that it should be reverted back to the original owners who are the local residents. You (Criticos) helped us in paying school fees when you were leading us but leave our land or else we will reclaim it by force,” said Tondoo. But when Dr Shaban rose to address the public, she bashed the leaders for inciting residents to invade private property. ALSO READ:

President Uhuru Kenyatta lauds KDF as Kenya's Mashujaa “Anyone found inciting residents to invade private property will face the full force of the law,” she said. In Kisii, Deputy Governor Joash Maangi told the residents at the Gusii Stadium that the town will be elevated to a municipality in line with the provisions of the Urban Areas and Cities Act, 2016. Maangi said the county has advertised for the positions of board members and the municipality manager. Professional bodies Maangi said members will be drawn from professional bodies and registered associations and they will manage the municipality on behalf of the county government. The new Kisii Municipality will start accessing Sh164 million World Bank Development grant for infrastructure development. The funds will be used in building a fire station, storm water management, roads and walkways. But, at the celebrations in Murang’a, the absence of Governor Mwangi wa Iria and MCAs at celebrations sparked protest among leaders who sought for unity. During the fete at Gakoigo showground, Murang’a MP Sabina Chege and her Maragua counterpart Mary Waithera said the absence of the governor and MCAs was regrettable. Three weeks ago, the governor declared he would not share any forum with County Commissioner John Elungata, accusing him of protecting the management of Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) to resist county government directives. They said the leaders should demonstrate unity for the sake of service delivery. Only three members of the county assembly attended. ALSO READ:

Uhuru: An irritated President failed by trusted foot soldiers Chege said leaders should stop unnecessary competition and focus on effective service delivery to the one million residents. She said the governor ought to have been part of the celebrations to hear complaints from the public. “MCAs should not be intimidated as they should focus in enacting legislation that will guide development. Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata should play his oversight mandate and point out the shortcomings in the service delivery,” she said. [Nehemiah Okwemba, Renson Mnyamwezi  and Mishi Gongo, Boniface Gikandi]