ODM leader Raila Odinga (left) has a word with COTU Secretary General Francis Atwoli during the burial ceremony of the late Achieng' Kech at Langi village in Ndhiwa, Homabay county on October 19,2018. [Photo: Denish Ochieng/ Standard] ODM leader Raila Odinga has lashed out at MCAs for engaging in endless wrangles instead of working for the electorate. ALSO READ:

House business adjourned over quorum Raila was irked that since they were elected to office, MCAS across the country had turned their assemblies into battlegrounds, thus defeating their purpose. “Kenya is saddened by the ongoing developments and endless wrangles in most of the Assemblies which have become the theatre of absurd,” Raila said yesterday at the burial of former politician Aketch Chieng in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay County. The ODM leader was not happy that instead of the MCAS debating on viable development projects that can benefit the people, they were busy “fighting”. He said debates witnessed are only about members agitating for higher salaries, car loans and mortages, which are largely for personal gain. The opposition chief said the recent wrangles witnessed in Nairobi, Nyeri, Kisumu and Homa Bay county assemblies was a shame. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content “We are tired of the assemblies’ episodes every week. Is this what took them there?” he posed. Coveted positions At the apex of the MCAs wrangles is coveted leadership positions, which has split most of the assemblies into camps. ALSO READ:

Row over law on taxes threatens operations in Taita Taveta In some cases, governors, senators and MPs have been blamed for the leadership squabbles. Raila said with damning reports of lackluster performance in the county assemblies, Kenyans must re-look into the merits for one to be an MCA. Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli said the push for a referendum to amend the Constitution laws was unstoppable. “We need an all inclusive constitution. We don’t want a constitution where the winner takes it all,” said Atwoli. He tickled the crowd to laughter when he claimed that in future a president might even run away with the Central Bank of Kenya if the law is not reviewed to insulate Kenyans. Senate Minority Leader James Orengo, his National Assembly Counterpart John Mbadi, MPs Tom Kajwang, Paul Abuor, Gladys Wanga, Martin Owino and Millie Odhiambo supported the calls for a referendum. The MPs said the reforms would boost good governance in the country. ALSO READ:

Chaos rock Nyandarua Assembly as three journalists injured Atwoli also called for unity of all Kenyans and asked them to embrace the handshake. He said they firmly support President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila’s bid to unite Kenya.