?Nakuru county government has honoured heroes and heroines by renaming some roads and streets after them. Addressing Mashujaa Day celebrations at Afraha Stadium on Saturday, Governor Lee Kinyanjui said this was in recognition of their service to the county and people. ALSO READ:

We must slay ghost of corruption, Uhuru declares Mr Kinyanjui recognised politicians and wananchi who he said contributed greatly to the social, political and cultural development of the county. “This administration has decided to have a place to honour the departed and living heroes and heroines. Nakuru has a special place in the history of the country and it is never short of people who have made the county proud over the years- before and after independence,” the governor said. Among those whose names will appear on the streets and roads in the county is Lena Moi, the late wife of former President Daniel Moi. Mrs Moi who died in July 2004 led an admirably quiet life. Kinyanjui said Maragoli Road in Milimani estate will be renamed Lena Moi road in recognition to the contribution made by the former First Lady. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content Veteran politician Koigi Wa Wamwere who was detained by Presidents Jomo Kenyatta and Moi regimes for a total of 14 years, was also recognised for his role in the fight for democracy and the second liberation. The Teacher Mawanga road will now be renamed Koigi Wa Wamwere Road. Koigi who attended the fete said it was an honour to fight for democracy and the second liberation. ALSO READ:

Heroes to lose honors if law is implemented “I’m humbled by the governor’s gesture to honour me for my role in the fight for democracy, how I wish other counties should follow suit and recognise all those who fought for the second liberation,” he said. The late Kihika Kimani, Mark Mwithaga, Fred Kubai, Kibowen Komen, Alicen Chelaite and former Governor Kinuthia Mbugua will also have roads named after them. The governor also recognised philanthropist Dhanji Parmar, who died in July for his efforts towards assisting the poor and for being patriot. The late Parmar never missed any national events. He worked with the Lions Club Nakuru to alleviate suffering of the poor. Others recognised during the event were former mayors Josek Thuo, Samuel Mithamo, D K Kanyi and educationist Eyleen Gochoch. Naivasha industrialist Tabitha Karanja will also have one of the roads named after her in the sub-county alongside white settlers Lord Delamere and Lord Egerton, who pioneered agriculture and education in the county. One of roads leading to Lake Nakuru National Park was renamed after the last male norther white Rhino- Sudan, which died early this year. newsdesk@standardmedia.co.ke ALSO READ:

Unity, push for referendum dominate occasion meant to honour national heroes