Devolved units across the country could soon have their enforcement officers adopt a uniform code of conduct if a new Bill before the Senate becomes law. The County Law Compliance Enforcement Bill 2018, which seeks to introduce professionalism among county ‘askari’ was tabled during the Senate sitting in Uasin Gishu County last Tuesday. The Bill sponsored by Vihiga Senator George Khaniri proposes stiff penalties for those found defying the enforcement officers. It also proposes the establishment of a law compliance and enforcement unit for every county. The unit will be responsible for the human resource aspects. The functions of the unit will be to ensure compliance with all county laws, protect and guard county property and assist police with investigations in cases of law violations, among other duties. Approve law If the senators approve the law, reports of county askari mishandling the public could become a thing of the past. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Officers will be required to exercise fairness, self-control and tolerance as well as refrain from bullying, abusing, harassing or victimising any person. According to the Bill, the officers will need service identity cards and will be required to use reasonable force in arresting suspects before immediately handing them over to the police. “An enforcement officer who arrests a person and fails to present the suspect to a police station immediately upon arrest commits an offence,” reads the Bill, which adds that officers must be in distinctive uniforms before effecting arrest. Anyone impersonating county askari will not be spared should be Bill become law, as Mr Khaniri wants such suspects to face harsh penalties. “A person who impersonates an enforcement officer commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding Sh500,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years or both.” Those who resist arrest, obstruct or interfere with the duties of the officers commit a crime. If convicted, they are liable to a fine not exceeding Sh250,000 or a jail term not exceeding one year or both. 