 Orange Democratic Party's (ODM) Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa addressing the Media at her Malindi's constituency office in Kilifi County on Thursday,021st June,2018. She was defending herself against an Order by the party threating to take action against its rebel Mps who recently showed signs of supporting Deputy President William Ruto's bid in running for the 2022 Presidential to seat.[Maarufu Mohamed,Standard] Members of the Kilifi County Assembly from Malindi Sub County have cautioned Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa against disobeying the Orange Democratic Party leadership.
 
Their sentiments came days after Aisha Jumwa rubbished summons by the party’s disciplinary committee. In the presence of Deputy President William Ruto in the weekend Jumwa and Msambweni MP Suleiman Dori who were elected on an ODM ticket but have since rebelled announced they will not honour disciplinary summonses on October 10.
 
Led by Kakuyuni ward MCA Nixon Muramba, the seven MCAs vowed to rally for her disbandment from the party in the event she failed to appear before the committee on Wednesday next week.
 
They have accused Aisha of fueling a rebellion against the party leadership and thrown her weight behind Deputy President William Ruto.
 
“She should immediately relinquish her position of MP if she fails to appear before the committee and failure of which we shall write to the party for more actions,” he said.
 
Kakuyuni ward is the home of Aisha Jumwa and the MCAs have vowed to rally locals against her.
 
The MCAs have also condemned Ruto against his recent attacks on Raila Odinga saying that the DP should perform his duties and leave Raila alone.
 
“Raila gave the handshake to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his aim was not to remove Ruto who is a deputy party leader of Jubilee from his party,” said Muramba.
 
The MCA said the building the bridges initiative reached between President Kenyatta and Odinga was meant to unite Kenyans and not to oust the DP.
 
“Raila has no time for a person like Ruto and his ilk. He has embraced the handshake  and its annoying you, let me tell you my brother look for other excuses if things are tough in Jubilee for you leave alone and look for another pace ,’’ he said.