A portrait drawing photo of Former President Daniel Arap Moi being sworn in as the president and the commander in chief of the armed forces of the republic of Kenya on October 10,1978. [Photo:Kipsang Joseph/Standard] For many people, the mention of Moi Day evokes different memories. ALSO READ:

Kenyans recall former head of State's style For some, it was a day that saw crowds fill public venues to listen to speeches, watch fly-pasts by the military and be entertained by traditional dancers and choirs. To others, it reminds them of the retired president’s passion for education and how this changed their lives. Among such people is Joseph Lekuton (pictured), a former Laisamis Member of Parliament in Marsabit County. He attests to President Moi’s passion for education that has made him sponsor children from poor families to get access to quality education. Mr Lekuton was offered a scholarship at Moi High School Kabarak at a time prolonged drought had swept away his family’s entire livestock, leaving it unable to raise school fees. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. He said he first met Moi during a football tournament at Kabarak. President Moi was impressed by his performance as a striker. Moi paid his fees at Moi High School Kabarak, which was then a public national school. “I honour Moi for the role he played in my life. I’m who I am because of him,” said. Lekuton. After high school, he was offered a job at Kenya Commercial Bank as a clerk. ALSO READ:

Moi and a school named Mercy Njeri While working at the bank, he received a scholarship to study at St Lawrence University in the US, with Moi paying part of his air ticket. He is currently a consultant with National Geographic and board member of the National Social Security Fund. Another beneficiary of Moi’s giving heart is Bernard Kibet from Eldama Ravine in Baringo. To Kibet, Moi was a godsend. His blind mother could not raise school fees to enable him to access education. But Moi, who was touched by his story, sponsored him. The former president enrolled him at Moi High School Kabarak, where he sat for his Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education. He went for further studies at an American university. Kabarak University Vice-Chancellor Henry Kiplagat said Kibet was supporting education in his village by improving infrastructure. The VC told The Standard that the former president assisted hundreds of needy students because he was passionate about education. ALSO READ:

Traders recall good old days when Moi shopped in markets “You cannot talk about education without mentioning Moi. He made great contributions,” said Prof Kiplagat.