Eunice Akinyi vividly remembers the events of February 16, 2017, at Dunga Health Centre, where she had gone to deliver her second child. A contractor was ejecting staff and patients from the facility, which had been in operation for only three months. ALSO READ:

Cleft lip and palate need not be death sentences for patients Ms Akinyi would later learn that the contractor was claiming a debt owed to him by the county government. Turned away from the health facility, Akinyi delivered her baby boy in a neighbouring home, assisted by a midwife. She developed complications during the delivery and nearly died from excessive bleeding. The closure of Dunga Health Centre has denied services to at least 4,000 residents, who now have to travel long distances to seek treatment. The crisis at the health facility has yet to be resolved as the Sh4.5 million the contractor is claiming has yet to be paid. “Three months ago, Governor Anyang' Nyong'o visited the health facility and promised to reopen it to start serving the locals. We are still waiting,” said Marion Auma, a resident. Ms Auma said expectant mothers and emergency cases from Dunga have to use motorbikes to seek medical care at a health facility five kilometres away. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. Auma recalled the events that preceded the closure of the health centre. She said the contractor stormed the facility mid-morning and sent away patients and medical personnel. “It was frustrating. Patients writhed in pain as nurses watched helplessly," said Auma. Another resident, Richard Oketch, claimed the closure had caused the loss of many lives in the area, which has high prevalence of malaria. ALSO READ:

Governors fears boundary row could hurt bloc projects “I lost a child while trying to get means to the nearby hospital. If the dispensary was open, she could have been saved,” said Mr Oketch. Den of criminals He said the health centre was deteriorating residents feared it would soon become a den of criminals. Oketch expressed concern that the drugs locked in the facility might have expired. He alleged that the county government had failed to respond to residents' distress calls. The health centre, located along the shores of Lake Victoria, stands on one acre. Its compound has become a grazing ground. Once well-fenced with barbed wire, the facility has now been left open, with broken windows and tall grass all over the compound. ALSO READ:

Governors root for key reforms at NHIF A peek through the window shows piles of boxes and drugs, an indication that the dispensary was once functional. Efforts to get a comment from the construction site manager failed as calls and texts went unanswered. The county executive committee member for health, Rosemary Obara, said the county had encountered financial constraints paying the contractor. "The contractor closed the facility demanding full payment. The finance office is aware of the matter and is working on a solution," said Dr Obara.