On the morning of December 15, 2016, Kitui residents were shocked to earn that former Mayor Martha Mwangangi had been crushed to death by a speeding county government vehicle. What followed was pandemonium as Kitui town burst into mourning with street protests marked by lighting of bonfires. ALSO READ:

Widow, her 3 children remanded in prison On the fateful day, Mwangangi was in the company of Ms Charity Ngilu, then a contestant for Kitui governor’s seat and now the sitting governor, when a hurtling county government fire engine descended on a crowd near Kitui police station. The two were addressing an agitated group of people protesting against demolition of their kiosks by the county government. The driver of the truck lost control and the monster lorry hurtled towards the crowd. As everybody else, including Ngilu scampered for cover, the former mayor missed a step and fell down. The worst then happened as the fire engine ran over her, killing her instantly. When the dust settled, a dazed Ngilu gathered herself up and walked over to the scene of the accident. Seeing her trusted lieutenant sprawled on the ground, lifeless, Ngilu wept. A lot of water has gone under the bridge since then. But for the family of the late mayor, the matter is still fresh and painful - they are seeking reparation in court. The matter has however taken an interesting turn following an agreement by two Kamba clans – Aombe and Akitutu – to resolve part of the high profile case. Following the accident, Philip Isika, the driver of the killer vehicle was arrested and subsequently charged at Kitui High Court for killing the former mayor. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content A separate case against the county government – owners of the vehicle - was also launched at the same court. According to Sammy Muisyo, a son-in-law to the former mayor, the agreement between the two clans was to forestall a deadly Kamba curse known as Kithitu befalling Isika – the driver - and his family. The driver belongs to Aombe clan while the late mayor belonged to Akitutu clan - the clan of her husband. “It is true the two clans met and agreed to bail out their son. Their clan was concerned about the effect of Kithitu in case somebody decided to go that route which is traditionally acceptable. But the case against the county government is still active and ongoing,” Muisyo said. He said the vehicle was property of the county government, adding that they would follow up the matter against the county government to its logical conclusion. Ronald Maanzo Kimanzi is an elder and chairman of the Aombe clan in Kitui Central who was actively involved in the said negotiations. He said in Kamba culture, if one has killed somebody, either intentionally or by accident, the clan of the offending party must compensate the victim’s family to cushion them from curse, in an arrangement locally known as maambo. ALSO READ:

Hostilities break out between Senator Wambua, Governor Ngilu The chilling curse of Kithitu is feared by many since its potent killer power sweeps a family clean including livestock. Dogs also die and houses come tumbling down, says Kimanzi of the dreaded curse. 14 cows “We met the Akitutu elders and the mayor’s family and struck an agreement. Traditionally in such cases, the offending clan pays 14 cows to the aggrieved party and we agreed on this,” said Kimanzi. To show commitment to the alternative justice system, a lone cow is paid as an installment to the aggrieved family and a goat slaughtered where elders from both clans feast and make peace. Kimanzi revealed already that has been done to the family of the late mayor. Morris Kimuli, the lawyer representing the later mayor’s family concurred.