One person has been killed by suspected cattle rustlers on the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot counties. In what is believed to be a retaliatory attack, the killers shot 60-year-old Kipkiror Kisang on Wednesday as he drove his cattle to a grazing field at Kameteywo village. ALSO READ:

Border schools merged over security concerns as examinations nigh "We have received a report on the incident and we are waiting for more facts. Officers have been sent to the ground," said Marakwet East OCPD Lemmy Njiru. An unknown number of livestock were stolen during the mid-morning attack that has sparked tension in the region. A few days ago, suspected raiders attacked Chemisto village in Sigor constituency and killed a seven-year-old boy and a 60-year-old man who was herding his cattle. They escaped with the animals. “Tension is already building in the area after the counter-attack and we are calling on security agencies in the two counties to stop the blood-letting,” said Nicholas Kitwara, a youth peace crusader. National examinations Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 Mr Kitwara warned that if the violence was not addressed, it would disrupt the national examinations. Elgeyo Marakwet County Commissioner Ahmed Omar said it was regrettable that the attacks were occurring when warring communities were being reconciled. “It is unfortunate that innocent people have been killed when we are in the process of making lasting peace. This time, we are hopeful that the suspects will be arrested,” said Dr Omar. The county administrator said chiefs had been ordered to identify and hand over bandits suspected to be hiding in the villages. ALSO READ:

Medical negligence led to deaths at public hospitals, report shows “We are confident of recovering the stolen livestock and possibly arresting the culprits since they live among the population,” said Omar. Embobut/Embolot MCA Paul Kipyatich said the attacks were undermining peace efforts.