Jane Kiano, Vicky Kaigai and Justice Isaac Lenaola at a Nairobi hotel on 7 October 2014. [File, Standard] Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has joined other politicians in mourning Jane Kiano. ALSO READ:

Foreign trips: Shock for top State officers Kiano, a former Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organization (MYWO) chief, died at the Nairobi Hospital on Thursday night after battling lung cancer. She was aged 74. At the time of her death, Kiano was a MYWO patron alongside Mama Ngina Kenyatta. She was MYWO national chairperson from 1971 to 1984 and the National Council of Women of Kenya chairperson from1999 to 2003. Kiano had more than 40 years of voluntary public service and leadership in the women's movement and was born in Tumu Tumu, Nyeri County. Kiano trained as a teacher before moving to Nairobi. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content In a message to newsrooms, the senator said Kiano will be remembered for supporting women's empowerment and girls' development. He added that many shied away from the male-dominated society that did little to promote women's justice. "She was a trailblazer who believed in equality for all genders," Moi said. ALSO READ:

Uhuru remains firmly in control despite many challenges in his way He added that Kiano's efforts have influenced women's strides in education, business and leadership. Kiano took over MYWO leadership in 1971. Since then, women across the country started championing for their political, social and economic rights. In 1972, she served as the Associated Country Women of the World vice president, representing East, West and Central Africa. Kiano was awarded the Elder of the Burning Spear Award in 1979 by retired President Jomo Kenyatta. During her time as MYWO chairperson, she pushed for the construction of Maendeleo House in Nairobi. Besides being the chairperson, she also served as the vice chairperson of National Council for Women and a Child Welfare Society of Kenya committee member. Kiano is also one of the founder members of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. ALSO READ:

Counties on the spot over budget She was married to Julius Gikonyo, a former Cabinet minister, nationalist and Kenya's first PhD holder.   