Two Members of Parliament from Marsabit County are being held in police custody over ongoing ethnic clashes that have claimed 14 lives. Saku MP Dido Rasso and his North Horr counterpart Chachu Nganya were picked up from Marsabit town yesterday by detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) and driven to Nairobi where they were held overnight ahead of a planned arraignment in court. ALSO READ:

Marsabit Clashes: State disarms KPR in Volatile Saku The prosecution plans to oppose their release on bail because of what sources said were threats and dangers they pose to the region. The MPs have denied the claims. A senior official at the DCI said they intend to ask the courts to allow them to hold the MPs for up to two weeks as more investigations continue into the incident. “We feel they are a danger to the national examinations and other activities and they should be held in custody for the sake of safety in the area,” said an officer. If granted, the MPs would be held either in police custody or prisons remand ahead of the hearing of their bail application. The MPs had been summoned separately by DCI officers in Embu led by Eastern Region Director of Criminal Investigation John Gacomo. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content The leaders had been summoned for the grilling after they were adversely mentioned in connection with the  skirmishes. Marsabit Governor Ali Mohamud Mohamed was also grilled. The arrest prompted a beehive of activities at the DCI headquarters where the  leaders were being processed. ALSO READ:

Voter wants MP out over triple citizenship Several legislators and supporters flocked the area in efforts to get a glimpse of the MPs as they were driven under tight security. The leaders had accused the security teams of failing to play their role and properly handle the issues related to past and recent conflicts in Marsabit. The latest move by security agencies comes days after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi warned that stern action would be taken against politicians fuelling violence in Marsabit. But even as the two leaders remained in police custody, some lawmakers from North Eastern condemned their arrest. Speaking hours after the duo were picked, Ali Wario (Bura) who is the chairperson of the region's parliamentary caucus, faulted the move noting it will derail the peace process. We condemn the arrest, as there is an already ongoing peace process. Why didn't the Government arrest Ganya and Rasso last week, why now?”  posed  Wario at a press briefing in Parliament, yesterday. He was accompanied by MPs Said Hiribae (Galole), Hassan Hulufo (Isiolo North), Wario Guyo (Garsen). Others were Kalicha Wario (Moyale), Rehema Jaldesa (Isiolo Woman Rep) and nominated Senator Dr Naomi Waqo ALSO READ:

Tree locusts scare residents “We thought the Government would respect and support the peace process, but instead it's derailing it. added Wario.