A family wants action taken against a police officer who they claim knocked dead one their members with a van while drunk. Kuvalya Mutua was riding on a boda boda with her daughter Mwelu Mutua, 7, when they were hit by the vehicle on September 24. The Class Two pupil at a school in Emali lost her right limb in the accident. ALSO READ:

Do all that is possible to make driving safe and pleasurable According to an eye-witnesses, the police vehicle was speeding when it veered off the road and knocked down the motorcycle. Mutua Kimondiu, the boda boda rider, escaped unhurt in the crash. “After the accident the driver, a police officer, tried to escape but we caught him and on searching him we found bottles of spirit, meaning he was from a nearby drinking joint”, said a boda boda rider who sought anonymity. Mwelu's mother, Peninah Ndunge, a farm hand, said the suspect is yet to be arrested. “We have not been called to record any statements even after the police killed my husband, and ruined the life of my daughter...I really want the police officer who caused this to carry his own cross" said a tearful Ndunge. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Ndunge accused Kilome Nursing Home, where her daughter was rushed to after the accident, of neglecting her leading to the amputation. On Monday, residents stormed the facility and forcefully took away the child despite protests by the hospital. They then took her to Makueni level 4 Hospital where the leg was amputated. The hospital’s senior medical officer Athman Lugogo said the patient was in bad shape when she was taken to the hospital. ALSO READ:

Careless pedestrians most at risk as road crashes increase “The child was brought in from a private facility and the referral was done when her limb got gangrenous”, said Lugogo. Good faith “We have amputated the limb and now the post operation patient is doing well. She will continue being in the hospital for some time for both medical and psychological support”, he added. Kilome Nursing Home’s administrator Muia Mulei said they did everything to save the child's life. He showed a CCTV footage of how they have been attending to the patient He said they didn’t demand for any fee from the patient and that they were acting in good faith to save her life. Emali OCPD Patrick Olonyi said crash is being investigated by traffic police officers based in Sultan Hamud. “This accident happened, not in my area but the other side of Rift Valley, Kajiado, I’m only responding to you as a police officer but the matter is under investigation from Sultan Hamud”, said Olonyi. ALSO READ:

Pedestrians in mortal danger: NTSA