Prof. Walter Mwanda (left), Oncology & Gynecology Lecturer at the University of Nairobi & also the Course Convener for Oncology in Kenya, British Council of Kenya, Director of Programmes & Partnerships, George Kogolla (right) and, British- Royal College of Physicians- Medical Oncology Consultant, Dr. Ruth Board (second right), present certificates to, Dr. Stephen Kibengo Chege and Dr. Nzinga Aura Mwende, both from Meru Teaching and Referral Hospital. 42 Kenyan doctors drawn from 19 counties have successfully completed week-long training on cancer diagnosis and management. ALSO READ:

How your county fares in the corruption league The Oncology training was organized by the East Africa Development Bank (EADB) in partnership with the British Council and the Royal College of Physicians of London at Ole Sereni Hotel, Nairobi. Statement from British Council reveals that the objective of the training is to boost medical fraternity capacity in fighting non-communicable diseases, particularly cancer and neurological disorder in East Africa. The doctors who were trained on acute cancer presentation triage and management of cancer symptoms are drawn from Bomet, Homabay, Isiolo, Kitui, Mandera, Marsabit, Kwale, Meru, Murang'a, Nyamira, Trans-Nzoia, Turkana, Vihiga, Kirinyaga, Nakuru, Wajir, Tana River, Nairobi and Kakamega counties. Ms Vivienne Yeda, the EADB's Director General, during the closing and certification ceremony of the training observed that the burden of disease and particularly the prevalence of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) is growing. "Of the most pressing NCD concerns, the burden of cancer has been increasing in Africa," she said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Stakeholders believe that ‘EADB envisions a quality, global reach medical experience’ particularly to Kenya as this comes as a boost to the Cuban doctors' effort. The Cuban medics jetted in on June 6, and were to leverage the country's success in providing comparable medical services to Kenyans. Dr. Ruth from the Royal college of Physicians also expressed her gratitude: ALSO READ:

Experts: Malaria can cause cancer "We are proud that we have this opportunity to use our expertise to support our colleagues in the East African region," she added that the programme was to improve health care for patients. The EADB medical training and fellowship programs that projects to train a total of 600 physicians by 2020, has trained 394 doctors in East Afica. 