From left ANC Leader Musalia Mudavadi flanked by Butere Member of Parliament Tindi Mwale addresses youth from different countys during the openingof Amani national congress ( ANC) National Youth Center at their offices in Nairobi on Wednesday 8 August 2018 [Photo: David Gichuru] Controversy over an audit report and leadership wrangles continue to dodge Musalia Mudavadi’s Amani National Congress (ANC). ALSO READ:

ANC to its leaders- Carry your own cross On Monday, the auditor general report indicated that the party could have lost up to Sh79,159,253 in unexplained withdrawals. The Auditor General recommended that former party officials including the secretary general, chairman, treasurer and executive director who were by then bank accounts signatories be interrogated over the finances. Further ANC appealed at the High Court the decision of the Political Parties Tribunal (PPT) that declared that former secretary general Godfrey Osotsi’s replacement was illegal. Parties in the matter are expected to make final submission on October 29. Osotsi was last year replaced with Barrack Muluka but the PPT through members, led by Chairman Kyalo Mbobu, Hassan Abdi and Ms Desma Nungo said the move was irregular and unlawful. Divert attention Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content PPT ruled that the Nominated MP, who was replaced on October 12, 2017, through a special National Executive Council, was still the secretary-general, until ANC holds elections, ‘in strict compliance with the party constitution.’ On Thursday, Muluka told former office holders to account for every cent spent. But yesterday, Osotsi questioned the timing of the report coming days before the final submissions in a High Court case challenging Muluka’s legality in office and the NEC as currently constituted. “The case is coming up on October 29 and they are presiding over the matter in the media trying to bully the court,” said Osotsi. ALSO READ:

Chaos rock Nyandarua Assembly as three journalists injured He added; “Why are they discussing and canvasing on issues that are active in court?" 