Busia and Malaba are still the leading borders in smuggling of goods and crossing of illegal immigrants from Uganda. To tame the vice, County Commissioner Jacob Narengo has formed an anti-smuggling unit. ALSO READ:

Ex-sacco officers to pay Sh9m However, unscrupulous traders are still sneaking into the country contraband goods from Uganda through Sofia, Marachi and Alupe borders. Recently, 68 bags of contraband sugar were found in a store in Bulanda, not far away from the Kenya-Uganda border. One of the officers, involved in the swoop, said the sugar belonged to a police officer, who has since been interdicted. Driven dangerously Many Kenyans regularly cross the border to shop for cereals, sugar, eggs, cosmetics, fuel, milk and fruits, among other items. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 County police commander Wambua Katithi could not admit the allegations that Toyota Probox cars used by the smugglers are owned by some of his officers. “I cannot admit or deny that some cars are owned by police officers until investigation is done,” he said. Boda boda operators have been on the fore front in demanding action to stem smuggling. They say the Probox cars are driven recklessly and dangerously. ALSO READ:

MCAs dismiss plot to oust Ojaamong Boda boda riders association chairman in Busia town, Erick Makokha, said at least 18 people have been killed by hit-and-run speeding Probox cars for the past four months. The boda boda operators threatened during the burial of latest victim, Gerald Opiyo, to revenge by cracking down on the smugglers. Harmonisation of taxes Opiyo was knocked down by a car at Shaman along the busy Busia-Kisumu road. “The busy road is narrow but the Probox drivers do not usually care, they drive with impunity and end up causing accidents,” said Makokha. Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) officer James Malinzi said it is only through harmonisation of taxes between Kenya and Uganda that smuggling can be tamed. He said recently that wide tax disparities between the two countries were encouraging the vice. ALSO READ:

Ojaamong dares MCAs to impeach him “The Kenyan and Ugandan ministers for EAC should sit down and agree to harmonise taxes imposed on goods in both countries,” said Mr Malinzi.