Hustlers are known for their dreams, which, to quote Kenyan actress Lupita Nyong’o, are all valid. Their dreams keep their hopes alive as they live a hard reality. Their biggest dream is to one-day leave hustling behind and rest. Despite all the romanticism around hustling, it’s energy draining, and as one grows older, the energy to hustle ebbs. Without any inherited wealth, hustlers are often the foundation of any family wealth. They work hard, dreaming that their sacrifices will one day bring an end to hustling. They work at night when others are resting, they work under the hot sun or in the biting cold, and for long hours. Though economic realities force them to do so, the dream that they’ll one-day stop hustling is a great motivator. Few hustlers seek shortcuts – like crime, nepotism or conmanship – to actualise their dreams. Most hustlers are honest and keep dreaming. We’ll highlight some of their dreams. They dream of better houses; most rent. The beautification of their small houses shows their dreams. They use newspapers, plastic flowers and posters with encouraging words, most with religious connotations. They dream of better transport. Without owning cars, they’re very choosy about the matatus they board. Why else are matatus pimped? They dream of earning an extra income to enjoy the finer things in life. Economic reality doesn’t allow for it, so they use shortcuts like drinking cheap alcohol, which has the same end result as the most expensive wine or beer. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. They dream of entertainment after long days. But without home theatres, they drift into ‘joints’ where music is free. They even dream into the future. They take their kids to academies, which are in plenty even in low-income settlements. They hope that with better education, hustling with finally end. They had dreamt earlier of having a family through the weddings they held sponsored by relatives and friends. Reduce pain Their bigger dream is to leave Rongai for Karen, Pangani for Muthaiga, Githurai for Tatu City, Two Rivers View for Runda. Their final dream is to hopefully leave the country either for a holiday, or even to relocate. Even spiritually, they dream. Lots of churches have sprung up to help hustlers dream. In the past, it was all about the after-life. That dream has been shortened; it’s all about this life. Compare the sermons you heard as a kid to modern ones – yet the holy books haven’t changed. Such dreams reduce the pains of reality. The political and economic system should allow for the realisation of such dreams. But these systems are often dysfunctional, and at times deliberately shut down dreams through bad regulations and laws. Lots of dreams eventually turn into nightmares. Economists love taking about the vicious cycle of poverty, which is the ultimate nightmare. It’s time we reformed our social, political and mental systems to make it easier for hustlers to realise their dreams in their lifetime and break the cycle.