Migori County Governor Okoth Obado and his co-accused Micheal Oyamo and Caspal Obiero will know the fate of their bail application on Friday October 12, Justice Jessie Lesiit has ruled. The trio also faces the additional charge of the murder of Sharon Otieno's unborn baby. They have denied the charges, ALSO READ:

It’s D-day for Migori poll Lawyer representing Mr Obado, Migori County clerk Caspal Obiero and governor's aide Micheal Oyamo have made fresh bail application pending hearing by Lady Justice Jessie Lesiit at the Milimani Law Courts. Defence lawyer Nicholas Ombija urged the court to consider Obado's poor health and release him on bail. Obado  was remanded at Industrial Area Prison, Nairobi, but is now hospitalised at  at the Kenyatta National Hospital. The governor has been in remand for two weeks. He was rushed to the  hospital after he fell sick at the remand prison after complaining of stomach pains. The facility doctor who observed him approved his transfer to KNH. Obado has been in police custody since September 22 when his bail application was cancelled. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The hospitalisation stirred debate on whether the governor was getting special treatment while in police custody. Prison Commissioner General Isaiah Osugo has denied reports that Obado is receiving preferential treatment. Prison commissioner General Isaiah Osugo denied the claims, saying Obado is not treated like royalty while in prison. ALSO READ:

Governor Obado returns to court In a statement to newsrooms, Osugo said Obado was given a prison number as every inmate upon admission and issued with prison uniforms. "Hon. Obado was issued with prison requirements including uniforms for Capital Offenders as required by the Prison Rules and Regulations," he said. Obado is accused of killing Sharon Otieno, his girlfriend, who was seven months pregnant at the time of her death. Sharon's body was found at Kodera Forest in Homa Bay county on September 3. Sharon’s mother Melida Auma said she will be buried on October 19 at her grandfather's compound. The foetus, which had stab wounds from the gruesome murder, has already been buried. The family has urged well-wishers to help them raise Sh1 million to feed mourners. Melida is on record saying she did not ask for help from the Migori County Government. ALSO READ:

Migori Senate candidates warned against poll chaos 