More than 20 suspects accused of conspiring to steal Sh122 million advertisement money could spend the weekend in police cells. The group includes former ICT PS Sammy Ishiundu and Government Advertising Agency (GAA) director Dennis Chebitwey. They are accused of siphoning cash meant for the payment of advertising to media houses. ALSO READ:

MP Ayub Savula arrested Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Saturday approved the prosecution, saying he has sufficient evidence of fraudulent payment of Sh122,335,500 to media houses. "I am satisfied that Sammy Ishiundu, the then Principal Secretary, State Department of Broadcasting and Telecommunications in the Ministry of Information Communication and Technology, approved fraudulent payments of Sh122,335,5000 to the aforementioned persons and companies," the DPP said. Where it began The probe by DCI which started in August established the scheme started in July 2015 when the Government announced a move to control expenditure on advertising. A directive from Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich formed the Government Advertisement Agency. It coordinated all government advertising carried in a government publication, My. Gov., which is a weekly pullout in daily newspapers. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The monies would however end at phantom accounts and unregistered entities while media houses were owed millions of shillings. The Standard Group is owed Sh829.7 million, Royal Media Sh75 million while Mediamax is demanding Sh586.3 million. The Star Publications is owed Sh469.3 million while the Nation Media Group is seeking Sh857 million. Investigations showed the money was paid to Lugari MP Ayub Savula, Gatwiri Ringera and Hellen Kemboi. ALSO READ:

DPP calls out private sector on corruption Companies that allegedly received payments include The Sunday Publishers Ltd, Melsav Company Ltd, Johnnewton Communications, the Express Media Group, No Burns Protection Agencies Ltd, Cross Continents Ventures Ltd and Shieldlock Ltd.  Savula, a former journalist who owns Sunday Express, has been arrested. He spent Friday night at Muthaiga Police Station. The suspects will be charged with obtaining money by false pretences, making a document without authority and aiding the commission of a felony. Full list of those who will be charged for conspiring to commit a felony List of those accused of obtaining money by false pretence Individuals facing abuse of office charges ALSO READ:

Irrigation project takes off, excites farmers