A father needs to let his children see his love for their mother. His commitment to her and his family. [Courtesy] 1. A son who struggles to succeed…or not Boys who grow up without fathers struggle to succeed in the world of men - and to be good fathers. All the values around being a successful man are best taught by a child’s father. The need for men to be competitive, tough and resilient. Hard working, passionate and resilient. Honest, trustworthy and kind. 2. A son who struggles to develop deep relationships…or not A father needs to let his children see his love for their mother. His commitment to her and his family. They need to see him treating everyone with kindness and respect. Coping with conflict, and managing his emotions. Because boys do use that as a model for how they should treat their wives and families. A boy who doesn’t see that firsthand as he grows up may struggle a lot with his marriage in the future. 3. A son who lacks ambition and drive...or not A father needs to foster a son’s ambition and determination to succeed. One can do this by showing them that he has high expectations of them and confidence in their developing abilities. Show your son what you do for a living, show them why it is important for him to make a mark in the world. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. DAUGHTERS 1. A daughter who always picks the ‘wrong’ men… Fatherless girls grow up not knowing what they should expect from a good husband. And maybe distrusting all men, for example, while still craving their attention and approval. 2. A daughter picks a man just like daddy Daughters will go looking for a husband who will make them feel like their father did - whether good or bad. Having a good father teaches a girl that her husband should treat her with respect, work hard to provide for his family and be faithful. 3. Promiscuous daughter… or not Sadly, girls with absentee fathers do tend to start having sex earlier, and to have more partners. They’re also far more likely to drop out of school, and to have babies without fathers. Babies that grow up to have children who don’t have a dad. And so the cycle continues… 4. Daughter with high self-esteem…or not Her father’s encouragement and approval teaches her to value herself. To have a good body image, for example, and to believe she will succeed at whatever she attempts, throughout her education, work and marriage.