 Some members of the county assembly have denied reports of a plot to impeach Governor Sospeter Ojaamong (pictured). ALSO READ:

Ojaamong dares MCAs to impeach him The leader of majority, Laban Mukhwana (Bukhayo East), and the deputy speaker, Lawrence Okaale (Angurai North), said MCAs would work closely with the county chief. Mr Mukhwana denied reports that a meeting had been held to draft a motion to impeach Ojaamong. Mr Okaale said the MCAs who were sowing seeds of discord between the executive and the county assembly would be named and shamed. Mr Ojaamong, who was present when the leaders spoke at a church in Machakusi, Teso South, promised to work with MCAs for the common good of the residents. He said it was regrettable that a five-day that had been planned to discuss county business aborted last week, adding that he was confident that a truce would be reached. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. During the weekend, the governor asked the MCAs to refund over Sh7 million they had been paid in allowances for the meeting that was cut short. Consultative meeting Mr Ojaamong had invited the MCAs for a consultative meeting at Tom Mboya Labour College in Kisumu to deliberate on the county integrated development plan (CIDP), among other issues. ALSO READ:

Ojaamong row with ward reps escalates Two factions differed, with some MCAs accusing their colleagues of causing the stalemate with the county boss. Ward representatives Reports indicated that Ojaamong met the disgruntled MCAs in Kisumu yesterday. The Standard learned that the second meeting was initiated by the ward representatives. It was not clear if the meeting focused on CIDP, the supplementary budget, universal healthcare, revenue collection and implementation of key projects, which were to be discussed in last week’s retreat. The ward representatives walked out in protest last week after the governor scrapped the ward development fund, which Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo had in January declared unprocedural. ALSO READ:

Farmers to reap benefits of selling packed rice