In these times when there is a lot of disjointed talk on almost everything relating to the well-being of the country, the region and the world, interest arises on what the potential portends. There is, with the IMF and World Bank repeatedly issuing dismal reports on various countries, concern about the global economy returning to the 2008 down turn, and how to get out of the likely mess. A few states have solid leadership that gives direction, but such leaders pull in different directions. Some leaders are policy blurry and therefore unreliable. ALSO READ:

Big test for Raila as Migori votes They all affect Kenya as it grapples with an unknown future. Various aspects of success -Uhuru’s Big Four has several of them - disappear in the midst of negative publicity. Part of the reason for disappearance is because would-be leaders are busy repositioning themselves for political power. The idle ones have to look for something to do, which at times ends up being political noise making to derail performance. The repositioning raises the question of potential leadership with many people hoping that they would be the one. There are high fliers who, although properly groomed through training and pedigree, lack the appropriate temperament and touch, but they still think they have it. Usually, although the pedigree gets the training opportunities, it does not guarantee them leadership acceptability. The occasion And there are the unknown naturals who might have missed training opportunities but just rise to the occasion and command acceptability because of the hardships of the time. When they combine the training/pedigree aspect with the right temperament and touch for the occasion, such people have authority and public trust even when they hold no official office. Looking at the Kenyan horizon, there are two leadership scenarios competing for public acceptance. The pedigree comprises family power houses, the prominent names that have dominated colonial and post-colonial Kenya so much that they appear to be natural at the national and local levels. Whether one likes it or not, a onetime minister once remarked, Kenya would be ruled by the same families. As if to prove the former minister right, we have had specific names dominate our body politic, whether the discussion is about youth, gender, ethnicity, or training. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. Since big family names will always be there, attention is on the new ones that might make waves or receive public acceptability as leaders. Some are very fresh and the magnitude of their potential is presently unknown, but it is there. There is, for instance, the brash Aisha Jumwa in Malindi. With a lethal tongue and fearlessness, she believes she is, and appears like, a reincarnation of Mekatilili wa Menza. But certainly, she has cut a political niche for herself. Reckon with There is Eddy Oketch of Migori, proving ability to remain focused as he went against the odds in opposing the powerful ODM machinery. Properly trained in such places as Yale, Oketch narrowly lost the Migori senate seat, but emerged as a force to  reckon with. Making a graceful concession in defeat, he seems to have Tom Mboya’s flair. Oketch lost the senatorial seat but there is a young serving senator from Makueni, Mutula Kilonzo Jr., who appears focused on national issues, while catering for local interests. Scion of an Ukambani legal powerhouse, he has proven to be his own man, rather than his famous father’s political protégé. ALSO READ:

Migori by-election candidates in Final dash as campaign ends There also are governors worth watching. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has officially declared his interest in the presidency, attracting a lot of hostility. An accomplished public relations man, his handling of existing and potential detractors will either enhance or reduce his prospects. It is, however, Makueni County Governor Kivutha Kibwana who sends minds thinking of how to lead by using available resources productively and turning Makueni into a model county. He has no known presidential ambitions, but the fact that people talk of “the professor” positively is an indication that he has potential. Then there is Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, working closely with County Assembly Speaker Erastus Ekitela and County Attorney Erastus Ethekon, trying to propel Turkana into a national power house. Nanok gets mileage as the Council of Governors boss. It is not clear which of these people with potential will emerge top. They all, and others, are worth watching. Prof Munene teaches History and International Relations at USIU; machariamunene15@gmail.com