 Three doctors have gone to court to stop an investigation into their conduct by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDB). ALSO READ:

Brazil’s ‘Dr Bumbum’ arrested over woman’s death The three performed a breast enlargement procedure on a woman leading to her death. Stanley Khainga, Martin Ajujo and Evans Cherono filed the suit to stop conclusion of the investigation into the death of June Wanza Mulupi on June 7 after the procedure that was done at their Surgeoderm Healthcare clinic in Nairobi's Kilimani estate. Through lawyer Kiama Wangai, the three doctors accused KMPDB of bias and having a predetermined decision of finding them guilty of misconduct. “The board has shown bias in the manner it is conducting investigations and is set to deliver a ruling with all indications that they will lay blame on the doctors despite the fact that the committee investigating the matter is incompetent and only wants to settle scores,” he said. Three doctors Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. According to the lawyer, the three doctors are concerned about the way the complaint regarding Ms Mulupi’s death was instituted and the way the proceedings were conducted. They also cited conflict of interest and lack of capacity by the board’s committee to determine issues relating to plastic surgery. He claimed that one of the committee members was Prof Khainga’s colleague at the University of Nairobi and that the two had personal differences that could influence the board's decision. Khainga, Dr Ajujo and Dr Cherono have also distanced themselves from Mulupi’s death, arguing that the cosmetic procedure went well at their clinic and it was after she was moved to Nairobi Hospital that she was mismanaged. They said a doctor at Nairobi Hospital was responsible for injuring vessels in Mulupi's neck, leading to her death. They also said they had not been summoned to record any statements, adding this proved that the board was biased against them. The surgeons argued that medical reports showed Mulupi arrived at Nairobi Hospital in stable condition but a mistake in fixing an intravenous access in her neck caused internal bleeding that led to death. Their lawyer submitted that the board had no capacity to investigate the doctors given that the committee members had no expertise in plastic surgery, and that the board had a mischievous agenda since there had been no complaints from Mulupi’s family.