 Security officials on the border of Lamu and Garissa counties are on high alert due to reports that militants are planning attacks. ALSO READ:

Police alert: Al Shabaab planning major attack in Mandera Reports indicated that Al Shabaab terrorists were gathering in remote parts of the two counties to plan attacks also aimed at interrupting the national examinations. Some of the militants could be seen fetching water at Hulugho in Ijara, Garissa County. They were said to be planning to attack Garissa or northern Lamu. Lamu County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri yesterday said he had received a report from the National Intelligence Service (NIS) on the impending attacks. "They are planning to use forests as their hideouts, but the Government is prepared. We will not allow them to attack our people," said Mr Kanyiri. He added: "Intelligence reports we received on Saturday October 13, 2018, stated that at about 2030 hours at Hulugho Laga, about two kilometres from Hulugho town, local herders sighted about 15 armed Al Shabaab militants fetching water as 10 other provided security." Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content The militants were said to have used the Elkambere route to get to the water point at Hulugho and ordered the herders to vacate the area or get shot. The terror group could be planning to stage an attack against Government installations, telecommunication equipment and health facilities along the Hulugho-Taksile-Galmagala-Bula, Galol-Elkambere stretch on the border between the two counties. The militants were also said to be targeting non-local civil servants and police reservists, some of whom would be abducted. ALSO READ:

Fears of police killings as state loses terror cases However, Kanyiri said security officers were prepared to counter any terrorist attacks. "We have not ignored the intelligence information we have received. And we want to assure candidates, parents, teachers and all stakeholders of sufficient security during the national examinations. We will ensure each school is secured because exams must go on as planned," he said. Last month, Kenyan soldiers on patrol killed 10 militants and injured several others. The militants have targeted Kenya, especially after the Government declared war on them.