Murder suspect in Monica Kimanis Case Joseph Irungu(right) and Jacque Maribe at Milimani law court,the court has ordered medical treatment for Joseph Irungu and mental test for co-accussed Jacque Maribe before she takes plea Monday .9/10/18-[Photo: Beverlyne Musili,Standard] September 19- Monicah Nyawira Kimani lands from Juba, picks a taxi from JKIA to her house at Lamuria Gardens, off Dennis Pritt Road, Nairobi. ALSO READ:

Why Jowie wants to be released on bail While still on the road, she calls a number of people including prime suspect Joseph Irungu aka Irungu. She arrives at her house at the apartment at 7.15 pm and walks upstairs with her three pieces of luggage. She picks up some clothes she had ordered dropped at the gate and her house keys before retiring to her apartment number A8 on the third floor of the second block. Her neighbour walked into the house few minutes later before being joined by another guest who was delivering a number plate. 9;30 pm, a man who introduced himself as Joe who police now say is Irungu walks into the house. He leaves at about 1 am. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. At 2.45 am, Irungu walks into a club in Westlands looking for TV journalist Jacque Maribe. They leave at about 4 am. September 20-  At about midday, Monica's body is discovered in the bathtub  of her house. Body is moved to the mortuary. September 21- At about 1 am Irungu picks Maribe from a club in Kilimani area and drive to their Royal Park estate in Langata. He then shoots himself in what police describe as an attempted suicide using his neighbour Bryan Kassaine's gun. ALSO READ:

It's mental test for Maribe, medical treatment for Irungu He calls his neigboour ,Kassaine to pick the gun he used in the shooting. At 2 am they drive to Nairobi West Hospital, then to Kijabe hospital and later to Langata Hospital where Irungu is admitted. At about 7 pm Irungu, Maribe and Kassaine report to Langata police station on the shooting and claim Irungu was attacked outside the house. September 24- Irungu is discharged from hospital at about 6 pm. September 25- Irungu is picked up by police from Royal Park estate house he shared with Maribe. Police search the house and recover a live bullet from under the bed. September 26- Irungu is produced before a Kiambu court and detained for 10 days. ALSO READ:

Police look for another suspect in Monica killing September 27-Maribe presents herself before DCI for questioning. September 28= she goes back to DCI for second day. Police search Maribe and Kassaine’s houses and recover a Ceska pistol with 60 bullets. Irungu had used the weapon in an alleged attempted suicide. - Kassaine is arrested. September 29- Maribe is arrested by DCI and detained at Gigiri police cells. October 1- Maribe and Kassaine are presented before a Kiambu court and detained for 10 days to allow Police continue with investigations. October 9-, Maribe and Irungu are presented before High Court to face murder charges. Justice Jesse Lessit orders Maribe to undergo medical tests to check her mental status and be held at Langata Women Prison. The judge further orders Irungu be held at the Industrial Area remand and be taken to hospital ALSO READ:

DPP orders Maribe, Irungu charged with murder of Monica Kimani