Since 2011, October 14 has been set aside to celebrate the men and women in uniform. The KDF Day as it is known, was celebrated yesterday in Gilgil. President Uhuru Kenyatta who is the Commander-in-chief. It is a day meant to celebrate KDF’s fallen heroes and heroines by exalting their acts of valour and gallantry. It is also a day that the country appreciates the role of the military in protecting the country against enemies on land, air and sea. For a long time, Kenya’s military was decorated abroad, but not celebrated at home. ALSO READ:

President Uhuru to launch US flights Besides economic prowess, the strength of a country is defined by the boots on the ground. KDF helps to defend our values, our way of life, our collective will and most importantly, our sovereignty. Besides securing our borders, the soldiers serve in the African Union and UN missions all over the world. For the role it plays, KDF deserves not just commendation and colourful speeches, it deserves more. Since the launch of the Operation Linda Nchi seven years to flush out Al Shabaab from its cells in Somalia, KDF has been exposed to so much danger. The El Adde and Kulbiyow and other attacks- where nearly 200 soldiers have lost their lives- have highlighted the perils the officers face in the war front. A lot of those who die are young, barely out of their 20’s. They leave behind dependents, mostly young children. When a soldier dies or is incapacitated, the blow is huge given that most of those who enlist for the disciplined forces are usually from disadvantaged backgrounds who for lack of school fees to pursue higher education, enroll in the military. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Besides ensuring that the injured soldiers receive the best treatment to get them back on their feet as soon as possible, KDF should also look for practical and sustainable ways like setting up a bursary fund to ensure that their children’s education needs are taken care of long after service.