County officials have been warned against allowing themselves to be used as conduits of graft. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) told the officials that citing 'orders from above' while engaging in corruption would not save them. ALSO READ:

Ward reps summoned over chaos EACC Commissioner Dabaar Maalim said officials from all the 47 counties would be held individually accountable for graft in their departments, and that they should not drag the names of their respective governors or superiors into matters under investigation. Dr Maalim spoke yesterday when he launched the Kitui County Executive and Assembly Corruption Risk Assessment at the Kitui Agricultural Training Institute. The assessment is meant to advise the county on how to strengthen work procedures and practices to reduce corrupt practices. The commission will be in the county for the next three weeks and will visit various offices and the assembly to conduct the assessment and compile a report. “The commission is aware of the integrity and ethical challenges facing counties. Corruption loopholes exist in all management systems," said Maalim. Get live updates in Agriculture by subscribing to the new farmers TV SMS service. Text the word 'Farmers' to 22071. Systemic weaknesses "Systemic weakness, if not properly addressed can lead to misuse and loss of public resources, abuse of office, non-compliance with statutory obligations and poor service delivery.” Maalim told county officials to set up systems to minimise chances for corrupt practices and unethical conduct. ALSO READ:

High Court orders refund of Sh23.7 million to ex-county officials “The EACC is not involved in fault-finding or witch-hunt missions. We have the mandate of law enforcement, prevention and public education in the war against graft," he said. He rooted for prevention as a more effective way of combating graft "While the full weight of the law must be brought to bear against those indicted for corruption conduct, it is crucial that anti-corruption efforts be focused on prevention, which is more sustainable and cost-effective,” he said. He pointed out that corruption occurs when three elements coincide: a motivated individual, an opportunity and low risk of detection. Maalim announced that the commission was ready to partner with the county administration and assembly to establish systems to prevent corruption. Governor Charity Ngilu and Assembly Speaker George Ndotto promised to take up the war against graft in the county. “I will take it upon myself to safeguard all resources in this county and those allocated to it by the national government for the welfare of mwananchi,” Mrs Ngilu said. ALSO READ:

Adopt new ways of interpreting official corruption in Kenya