The county has started the process of recovering irregularly acquired public land. Working with the National Land Commission (NLC), the county has identified more than 300 parcels. ALSO READ:

Kenwind to pay Lamu farmers for their land According to NLC, at least 500 illegal title deeds would be revoked, including 207 in Marmanet Forest. According to a multi-agency task force led by Governor Ndiritu Muriithi and NLC coordinator Josephat Wasua, most of the land, which totals to over 400, 000 acres, was grabbed from schools, forests and towns. “The formal process of repossession of these parcels has begun. Both the national and county governments are working together on this. Anyone siting on public land should return it before we catch up with them,” said Mr Muriithi. Areas where NLC suspects land has been grabbed and illegal title deeds issued include St Moses Primary School in Nanyuki, Mworoga Dam in Umande, Muruku Polytechnic in Salama, Government offices, sewage treatment sites and public markets. According to NLC, 100 acres meant for a sewage treatment site have been grabbed. A senior government official was suspected to be holding a title deed for Government offices in Nanyuki. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “Former administrations issued many illegal titles influenced by people in power, but the law does not allow anyone to hold a title deed for public land,” said Mr Wasua. Governor Muriithi announced that there would be no compensation for repossessed land. “Some officials created titles out of illegal allotment. That does not validate them. We cannot compensate illegalities. The formal process of revoking the titles is underway,” he said ALSO READ:

PS issues pledge on fluorspar The land recovery process has been supported by the county assembly. The recovery team will include ward reps and county and NLC officials. “We are also taking back undeveloped land whose allotment has lapsed," said the governor.