Beth Njoki at Nakuru High court on October 25,2018 when she appeared before Justice Joel Ngugi . She is accused of killing her two-year-old son [Photo:Kipsang Joseph] A Nakuru High Court today sentenced a 24-year-old woman charged with the murder of her two- year old son to serve a probation sentence of three years. ALSO READ:

Young man charged with murder of a businessman Justice Joel Ngugi ruled that the accused Beth Njoki will serve a probation for a period of three years under the supervision and direction of the probation office in Nakuru County. In his ruling, the judge stated that he had considered the context and the surrounding circumstances of the case, and concluded that justice was best served by sentencing the accused person to non- custodial sentencing. “No meaningful sentencing objectives would be served by committing the accused person to prison at this point. The four years she was in remand have served any objectives which would have been served by a custodial sentence,” stated the judge. The prosecution told the court to consider the accused person as a first offender. Ms Njoki had presented written and oral statement to the court expressing her remorse for her action, which she cited that the four years she has been in prison has given her the opportunity to reflect on her action and reforms. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content “I have accepted Jesus Christ as my saviour, which has helped me escape the cultic religious practice which has led me to commit the offence,” regretted Ms Njoki. The family of the deceased urged the court to commit the accused person to the non-custodial sentence which was considered by the court. The accused person was found guilty of killing her son Benson Njuguna by throwing him in unused well on April 1 2014 at Muthenji village Kuresoi district within Nakuru County. ALSO READ:

Jacque Maribe, Jowie charged afresh with Monica’s murder The court was told that the accused person had problems with the father of her two children which forced her to return home to her mother, that’s where she left with her younger child only to return home alone. After some interrogation on her the accused led investigators to the well where the body of the deceased was retrieved. The court was satisfied that the circumstantial evidence of murder has been proved pointing at the accused alone as the one who tossed his child into well. The evidence of the doctor indicating that the deceased stomach was full of water is an indication that the child was alive when his body hit the water, he, therefore, inhaled causing him to swallow water. The investigations officer corporal Geoffrey Otieno stated that the accused had admitted to them that she threw her son into the well during interrogation. “She told us that she met devil worshiper in Molo who persuaded her to sacrifice her child,” added the officer. “No doubt that by throwing a 2-year-old toddler into a well full of water, the accused fully intended to kill or at least to cause grievous harm to the child. I’m satisfied that malice aforethought has been proved,” stated the judge. ALSO READ:

Two key players quit Nakuru RFC The court further considered that the accused person as being in a state of confusion and possible depression from her family situation. 