 Logistics firm Bollore is about to send hundreds of workers in their Kenya office on retrenchment. ALSO READ:

Unilever Tea to lay off workers in company restructuring This comes as tens of contractors have also pulled their trucks out of the company because they haven't been paid for several months. In a memo to staff, the managing director for Kenya Jean Pascal informed employees that the firm will have to let go of some employees due to 'drastic change in transport business in Kenya, among them, the implementation of standard gauge railway'. "We shall consequently embark on restructuring the company unto a leaner, more focused and customer centric organisation by combining teams, removing layers and stopping non core or non profitable activities. Regrettably, though this process, some of our colleagues will exit the company,” reads the memo. Withdrawn lorries The French owned logistics company has for the past six months been unable to pay contractors who leased trucks to them.  Several contractors have now withdrawn their lorries from the companys North Airport Road headquarters. With not enough trucks, the company's operations on relief food distribution in South Sudan, Somali and Congo have hit a snag. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. "I have been forced to withdraw seven of my vehicles.  I am paying loans on some of the vehicles and I risk losing everything if my vehicles don't make any returns. " says Ben Kamau. He adds that the company had promised to pay him two months ago for all the accrued payments. "A senior manager told me the problems with liquidity is because of the problems from the head office and personal finances of the owner. That's why I pulled out." Shares drop Bollore, owned by French billionaire Vincent Bollore has seen its share prices plummet after he was accused and charged in a French court of bribing African presidents to win lucrative tenders. His empire stretches over dozens of countries, with businesses from port concessions to logistics and railways, and the billionaire's political connections and media influence have helped it grow. But competition from deep-pocketed rivals such as Dubai's DP World Ltd. and Chinese firms is biting and he has been forced to pull out of some markets in Africa. The West African country of Benin recently snubbed Bollore SA in favor of a Chinese bidder for a railway project. Profit has suffered recently from a ramp-up in spending and a drop in activity in some African markets. "All is not well.  I had also withdrawn five trucks three months ago when payment became erratic... It's been a steady and reliable company to work with but for the past few months,  things it seems,  haven't been well. " says a government official who preferred to be anonymous. The company is now struggling to keep up with the logistics tenders it had won from NGOs.