A Kiambu court yesterday allowed police to detain TV journalist Jacque Maribe and her neighbour Brian Kasaine for 11 days as they complete their investigations. Ms Maribe could face murder, accessory to murder and possession of ammunition without a firearm charges related to the killing of Monica Nyawira Kimani. ALSO READ:

Unmasked: Secret life of murder suspect Maribe and Mr Kasaine were brought to court separately. According to court records, she had told the police that her fiancé, Joseph Kuria Irungu alias Jowie, attempted to commit suicide by shooting himself in the chest following a serious disagreement between them. Maribe indicates after shooting himself, Mr Irungu rushed out to the neighbour's house, woke him up and urged him to go and get the gun that was still in the journalist’s house. According to the police affidavit, Maribe said she and other persons rushed Irungu to hospital. The investigating officer however indicated that in an earlier statement she had recorded at Lang’ata Police Station, Maribe had alleged that Irungu had been shot by a three-man gang on a motorbike near the gate of her house. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The detective said preliminary investigations had so far established Irungu was seen in the company of another person near the crime scene while driving the journalist’s car. Body found Ms Kimani's body was found in her apartment in Kilimani, Nairobi, last week. It had been dumped in a bathtub with the throat slit and hands tied behind the back. ALSO READ:

Emotions run high as Monica Kimani is laid to rest Prosecution counsel Jacinta Nyamosi yesterday told Kiambu Principal Magistrate Justus Kituku that the journalist was being investigated for several offences including murder, accessory to murder and possession of ammunition without a firearm. Maribe’s lawyer, Katwa Kigen, opposed the prosecution's application to detain the suspect. But the magistrate ruled that there were compelling reasons advanced by the prosecution and ordered Maribe be detained for 11 days at Gigiri Police Station. “The suspect should not be forced to record any statement in the absence of her lawyer. The court also directs that her safety should be guaranteed while in custody,” ruled Mr Kituku. Kasaine, also a suspect in Kimani's murder, was produced in court a few hours after Maribe. The magistrate ordered he be detained at Lang’ata Police Station for 11 days as the police continue with their probe.  ALSO READ:

Man charged with assaulting directors of Ridgeways-Inn