Parliament has begun a process to fill vacant positions at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) ahead of the proposed referendum. The Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs Chaired by William Cheptumo is working on amendments to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission Act to provide for appointment of the selection panel to fill the vacancies yet to be announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta. ALSO READ:

Building blocks of the Constitution need more time before amendment “The commission is not properly constituted to conduct a referendum and we currently have a challenge because the President has not announced four positions held by the commissioners said to have resigned as vacant. What I know as the chair of the committee is that none of the four is earning a salary and their process of resigning is also incomplete,” said Mr Cheptumo. He noted that the first appointment of commissioners upon the commencement of section 5 of the IEBC Act enacted pursuant to the Election Laws Amendment Act, 2016 cannot be used for future appointments. A panel co-chaired by Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and Siaya Senator James Orengo that recruited the current IEBC commissioners expired with the 2017 General Election. Left in a huff Currently, IEBC affairs are run by three commissioners - chairman Wafula Chebukati, Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye after their colleagues Roselyne Akombe, Margaret Mwachanya, Consolata Maina and Paul Kurgat left the IEBC in a huff. Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. The amendments come at a time when the commission has sacked Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba months after he was sent on compulsory leave. Yesterday, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior said Kenyans are not sure if the four commissioners were still in office, adding that there may be a stalemate when the time for IEBC to frame the referendum question comes. The Senator pointed out that other than the commission’s quorum, there is need to amend some of the laws or come up with a Referendum Act that shows how IEBC should perform the exercise to avoid issues such as verification of voters’ signatures. ALSO READ:

Referendum clash looms, Ruto digs in “A referendum committee should have been in place at IEBC in the first place to produce a wish list because there are three documents already in place,” he added. Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma said there is need to fill the commissioners’ vacancies as soon as possible, adding that a new law or amendment to the existing one should be made to give room to political parties with majority and minority in Parliament to nominate commissioners.  “The party with majority MPs should nominate two commissioners, minority two, Law Society of Kenya one and so forth,” he said. A proposal Bill to amend the IEBC Act has been forwarded to the Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi. The Bill drafted by MP Kaluma seeks to delete section 5 of the IEBC Act and substitute it with a new section 5 which outlines the composition and procedure for nomination, approval and appointment of Commissioners. “The Commission shall consist of four members: Two to be nominated by the majority and two by the minority parties or coalition of parties and, one member being an advocate of the High Court of the status of a senior counsel elected by the members of the statutory body responsible for the professional regulation of advocates.,” he states in the proposed amendments. If the Bill sails through, IEBC employees will have to undergo fresh vetting within one year that will see only those who pass the test retain their positions. ALSO READ:

Rotational presidency, PM behind push for plebiscite “The service of any person who fails to meet the vetting criteria established by the Commission under this section shall stand terminated,” reads the document.