The first phase of a multi-million shilling project to upgrade dilapidated farm produce markets in the county has been completed. Although endowed with good agricultural soil and being among the top producers of bananas, avocados, pawpaws and other horticultural produce, lack of decent markets has hindered business for hundreds traders and farmers. ALSO READ:

MCA headed for appointment According to Governor Anne Waiguru, this informed the Sh50 million upgrade project. “If I could leave some impression on the lives of a few people, especially the downtrodden women, then that will be a reminder that I was there for them when they needed me most,” said Ms Waiguru. The governor made extensive tours of the area and identified the open-air markets that were in need of refurbishment following several years of neglect. The most recent upgrade was Kiamutugu market, which has opened its doors after a Sh10 million upgrade completed in August. Kiamutugu becomes the fifth market to be upgraded this year, after Makutano, Wang’uru, Kutus and Kagio. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 First phase The completion of Kiamutugu marks the end of the first phase of market upgrades launched by the governor early this year. Traders at the fresh produce market have spent years operating at the mercy of weather elements and some, like Naomi Karimi, had almost given up. ALSO READ:

Waiguru to sue IPSOS for defamation Although it was the only place where she could run her business, Kiamutugu had become unbearable especially during wet and extremely hot weather. Ms Karimi dreaded the rains as just getting to the market was a task in itself besides the trouble of displaying her goods in the downpour. And when the rains subsided, the mud in the old market turned into another nightmare - dust. “It was the same ritual every year,” she said. Karimi describes the refurbished market as a relief and a boon for her business. Election pledges Modernisation of markets was among Waiguru’s election pledges. The governor then identified five markets for upgrading in the first phase of the project. At Wang’uru market, Joyce Wakuthii has been struggling to run her cereals business for many years. ALSO READ:

State to list coffee farmers Ms Wakuthii recalls how her cereals bags would be tipped over by dusty winds during the dry season and get soaked during the rains before the market was roofed. “Now I do not have to worry about the winds, dust or rain,” she said. Makutano market lies at what is arguably the hottest part of the county. Here, traders have been contending with dusty conditions for decades. Abigael Wambui, who runs a hair salon business at the market, says she almost abandoned it. “My customers had fled due to the unfriendly environment but now business is picking up,” she said. At Kagio and Kutus, the new-look markets have changed the business environment. “I am now attracting more customers who earlier would not dare buy my fruits due to the filth on the mud  floor,” said Julian Muchira. The upgrade included roofing as well as paving the roads and paths.