Two families from Arror ward in Marakwet West are preparing to bury relatives who died after being bitten by venomous snakes. The snakes have invaded several homesteads in Kerio Valley, leaving death and pain in their wake. ALSO READ:

KWS rangers kill 'wrong' lion Samuel Kanda, 65, died after he was bitten a snake as he entered his homestead in Kapchebar on Monday last week. His shouts from the gate attracted his children, who ran to the scene. “He was shouting that he had been bitten," said Mr Kanda's son, Joseph Chepkiyeng. By then the snake had slithered away and the family struggled to take Kanda to Arror Mission Hospital - a two-hour journey through rough terrain. At Arror, the father of seven was referred to another Kapsowar Mission Hospital. He did not make it. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. A few kilometres away, in Samar village, another family is mourning the death of their 17-year-old son. Solomon Kimutai died while being treated at Mogil Health Centre after a snake bit him on the left hand as he was bringing the livestock back home. “The snake bit him as he was closing the livestock pen," said his brother, Philemon Komen. "We are now fearing for the safety of school students because the snakes are everywhere." ALSO READ:

Inside Kenya’s snake paradise Kerio Valley is home to some of the deadliest snakes in the world, including the black and green mamba, puff adder and several species of cobra. Pythons have also been spotted in the area. The searing heat being experienced in the region is thought to have sent the reptiles into people’s homesteads in search of water. As a result, residents have taken to placing tins full of water outside their houses at night in the belief that the reptiles will drink and leave. They have also been clearing bushes around their homesteads. The residents say many families in the area bear scars as testimony of the danger they live with daily. “The situation is worsened by lack of anti-venom in our health facilities, which results in several fatalities and amputations,” said Marakwet West MP William Kisang. Public Health Director Kore Cheboi said the authorities would ensure that local health facilities were stocked with anti-venom. The Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS) advised affected families to seek compensation. ALSO READ:

Authorities issue snake alert after floods hit area “Snake bites are rampant in the region and we urge caution," added KWS warden John Ngalia.