Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has requested the national government to help his government complete the construction of a teaching and referral hospital. The Sh6.3 billion health facility will be built in three phases. The county will also need Sh2.1 billion to equip and furnish the 750-bed capacity hospital. ALSO READ:

IG dismisses insecurity claims in Kisumu as activists protest “Phase One is currently under way, Phase Two will be launched next year and Phase Three in 2020,” said Mr Oparanya. “There is need to collaborate with the national government if we hope to complete this mega project and make it a reality.” Health professionals The Kakamega County Teaching and Referral Hospital, which is being built on 10 acres, will be integrated with the current Kakamega County Referral Hospital. It will employ more than 5,000 health professionals once it is fully operational. “The new referral hospital will supplement and help to decongest Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret,” the governor said. Avoid becoming a victim of Fake News. Subscribe to the Standard Group SMS service by texting 'NEWS' to 22840. Besides the teaching and referral facility, the county government is putting up two new Level Four hospitals in Mumias and Shinyalu sub-counties at a cost of Sh200 million each. The governor on Saturday accompanied President Uhuru Kenyatta, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki on a tour of the site of the upcoming hospital. He assured the President of his full support for the Government’s Big Four development agenda. The President praised the governor for launching a mega health project and encouraged other governors to follow suit with similar projects that will benefit the public. ALSO READ:

Hospitals in poor shape, says senator Major projects “Governor Oparanya has started major projects like the rehabilitation of Bukhungu Stadium, construction of a referral hospital from scratch and modernisation of the road network, which the people of Kakamega are proud of,” said Uhuru. He reiterated his commitment to the achievement of Universal Healthcare Coverage (UHC). But he emphasised that since health services were devolved, county governments should work closely with the national government to make affordable healthcare a reality. “The two levels of government can work together on aspects of staffing, equipment and structural development,” the President said.