A Mombasa based civil society group, Haki Africa has been granted observer status by the African Commission on Human and Peoples Rights (ACHPR). This status is granted to a select few organisations and it means that Haki Africa can now monitor human rights in all African member states as well as issue communique on the status of human rights to the ACHPR. ALSO READ:

Prison roots for ex-convicts ACHPR is the main human rights body for Africa and is recognised by all countries. It was established in 1987 in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. ''Over the years , Haki Africa has  remained  steadfast  in its defence of human rights at the Kenyan Coast , rest of the country and Africa in general. We have not only stood  firm despite  the shrinking  civil space but also pioneered  ground breaking work on human rights  and the rule of law,'' Mr Hussein Khalid, Haki Africa Executive Director said. The Executive Director said that effective next year, Haki Africa will proceed to initiate programmes to cover the entire continent. ''Begining January 2019, the organisation will explore possibilities of working in Eastern Africaas well as West Africa,'' Khalid said. Khalid said that the organisation has held activities not just in different parts of the Kenya but also in Uganda and Tanzania. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content '' We have networks and partners spread across the African continent including the Sudan, Nigeria, South Africa and Ethiopia,'' the Executive Director said. Khalid said that the organisation reached a milestone in June this year when it became the first Kenyan human rights organisation to speak at the United Nations General Assembly in New York City. Haki Africa, Khalid said is a member of the United Nations Economic and Socio Cultural (ECOSOC) NGOs group and the global Civicus group. ALSO READ:

Senators alarmed by stalled housing units of prison officers ''As a premier Kenyan organisation, it is our hope that the Kenyan government will recognize the efforts of the organisation and create a conducive environment for civil society organisations  to excel  and become the leading  human rights  African entity with roots in Kenya,'' Khalid stated.