The management of Kenya Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologists Board is under siege as health consumer wants them removed from office. The litigant Mr Njagi Kavanda has questioned the leadership integrity of the board Chairman Mr Abel Odhiambo Onyango for alleged mismanaging the institution over the years he has been the board chair. ALSO READ:

Crackdown on illegal colleges renewed Despite the integrity issues being communicated to the Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Health, nothing or no action has been taken to rectify the situation. The  applicants  through his lawyer Eric Kinaro says that Mr Onyango has been conducting  the affairs of the board in total disregard of the provisions of section 6 and 8 (1) of Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologist Act. The action of the chairman has threatened, violated and infringed the rights of Kenya citizens to the highest standard of healthcare. Mr Onyango was appointed to the board in the year 2012 he severed for period of three years and was re-appointed in 2015 his terms of office expired on August 26, 2018 but he is still in office contrary to the provisions of the law. The applicant seeks an order to compel Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Health, to reconstitute a new board and make it fully and prudently operational. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 He wants the director of criminal investigation to probe the extent of abuse of office especially area of financial mismanagement and misappropriation of funds meant to run the institution. Complaint about the chair has been raised by IR Iran medical clinic in Nairobi over harassment and demand of money from the directors of the clinic in which US 4000 was received by Mr Onyango that DCI ought to investigate. When parties appeared before Justice Chacha Mwita, the court directed CS Health, attorney general and the board to file their responses to the petition and the matter be mentioned on 24 October 2018 to confirm compliance ALSO READ:

Ministry warning on health packages 