Human activities have been banned in the Mau Forest complex. According to security officials, only Government personnel on duty will be allowed into the forest, whose entry points will be sealed to keep out herders. ALSO READ:

It’s deathly silence, fear as villages heal from killings Also banned is the shamba system where some farmers living on the forest's edges were allowed to farm as long as they took care of young trees alongside their crops. The ban is expected to affect thousands of families who depend on the forest for pasture and firewood. Local administrators have said grazing and the shamba system contributed to recent clashes in the Mau. Njoro Deputy County Commissioner Wambua Muthama yesterday suspended the two activities for three months. "The shamba system and grazing in the forest have been suspended for the next three months in the entire Mau forest. The decision might be extended after consultations," Mr Muthama said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. He added that security had been increased at all entry points to lock out herders. “These people were the biggest beneficiaries, both in grazing livestock and the shamba system, but they have misused the privilege,” he said. The ban has been supported by conservationists, who have blamed the forest's degradation on the abuse of the shamba system and uncontrolled grazing. ALSO READ:

Trading centre burnt as police step up security According to forest officials, the high livestock population in the forest had been difficult to control. “There has been an increase in livestock allowed into the forest, especially in parts of Teret. This has led to overgrazing and destruction of young trees,” said Shadrack Tokii, a forester at Logoman station in Eastern Mau. A 2017 report on the South West block of the Mau indicated that the actual number of livestock grazing in the forest was not known. The report put the number of livestock driven into the forest block every day at more than 12,000. Citing ineffective management of forest entry points, the report noted that the number of livestock could be higher in South West, Eastern and Maasai Mau - all major grazing fields. Periodic reports by the National Environmental Complaints Committee (NECC) described the shamba system as the most abused programme in the forest sector. The system, code named 'Plantation Establishment Livelihood Improvement Scheme' (Pelis), has been associated with logging, charcoal burning, forest fires and overgrazing. ALSO READ:

Will China shift resources from Africa to Russia now? "We receive complaints everyday linking the programme to forest destruction," said John Chumo, the NECC secretary. “Almost all recorded fires, illegal charcoal burning activities and overgrazing happen close to Pelis areas,” said David Keter, the director of Greenlife and Nature.