Neglected nutritious indigenous foods could soon make a comeback on family tables if efforts by Kenyan universities succeed. At least four universities are exploring the use of edible insects, animals and neglected crops as viable alternative foods to strengthen national food and nutritional security. ALSO READ:

Duo killed in 'love triangle' Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (Jkuat), for example, plans to release into the local market seeds of at least nine indigenous vegetables known for their nutritional and health benefits. The university also plans to commercialise at least 45 agricultural technological innovations it has developed as part of efforts to drive up trade in food production. Speaking at the World Food Day celebrations in Siaya County yesterday, Mary Abukutsa (pictured), the Jkuat deputy vice chancellor in charge of research, production and extension, said plans were at an advanced to commercialise the innovations, which include seeds of neglected crops as well as gadgets that promise to revolutionise agriculture for small-scale and commercial farmers. “We have been researching on improving agriculture and crops specifically designed to help the war against food insecurity. These findings have largely been lying on the shelves instead of impacting lives. It is for this reason that we have now introduced the entrepreneurial bit to ensure these milestones achieve their intended purpose,” said Prof Abukutsa. She said seeds of vegetables such as African spinach, African nightshade (managu), amaranth and spider plant had been approved for commercialisation by the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content “We are working with seed companies and very soon we expect to see the products on store shelves across the country,” she said. The vegetables, she said, were rich in nutrients, vitamins and antioxidants, which were vital in keeping lifestyle diseases at bay. She said the university was in consultation with other researchers, policy makers, farmers, and retail stores to drive up consumption of healthier vegetables. ALSO READ:

DP Ruto fights to save Weston Hotel The researcher explained that African nightshade, a common delicacy in western Kenya, for example, packs up to 20 times more calcium than cabbage. Pumpkin leaves are packed with calcium and aid in digestion. The university has partnered with Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University and Maseno University. The celebrations were marked at a model farm in Ajigo, Bondo, in Siaya County. Machakos University Dean of Agricultural Sciences Jacob Konyango is the founder of the farm that offers training on horticulture, dairy, poultry, fish and tree farming.