A section of the ceiling through which thugs accessed a business premise in Molo Town on May 23, 2018. [Kennedy Gachuhi, Standard] Two people were on Saturday night killed when they came across robbers breaking into a shop in town. ALSO READ:

Sh.18M water filtering plant opened in Nakuru David Ukunda, a witness, said the gang first killed a security guard outside a shop next to his house and was trying to gain entry into the building, which is less than 300 metres from Molo Police Station. “I walked out of my house to relieve myself and saw the thugs drilling into the wall of the wholesale shop. One of them hit me with a blunt object, forced me back into the house and tied my hands and legs,” said Mr Ukunda. The robbers then dragged the dead security guard and another who was tied with ropes into his house. Ukunda’s 21-year-old son Jotham Mbuya was also tied up. “My son kept blocking the thugs from attacking me and was locked in the same room with the dead guard. The second guard and I were left under the watch of one of the robbers while the rest continued with their mission,” he said. Ukunda’s daughter, Faith Nyandiko, said she arrived home from work at around 1pm but fled when she saw the thugs. She ran into police officers on patrol and reported the incident. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Molo OCPD Bernard Kioko said the officers foiled the robbery but the criminals escaped. He said they rescued the two hostages but found Mr Mbuya dead. They suspected he had suffocated because he had no injuries. On the same night, 60-year-old Paul Martim from Sirikwa in Kuresoi North was found dead in his house, his body lying in a pool of blood. Kuresoi OCPD Hesborn Kadenge said a male suspect linked to Mr Martim's death was on the run. ALSO READ:

Trading centre burnt as police step up security “We are still in pursuit of the prime suspect in the death of Martim. The suspect has been identified and escaped when an angry mob got wind of the killing,” said Mr Kadenge.