It is proving to be “black October” for Kericho County which is experiencing unprecedented murders. Besides the 56 people who perished in the Wednesday Fort-Ternan road crash, the county has recorded several deaths in the last 48 hours. ALSO READ:

10 days police custody for ‘Home Boyz’ bus owners In the latest macabre killing, Collins Kiprotich, 25, slit the throat of his lover, Faith Chepchichir, 23, before he hanged himself in Kiburet village in Ainamoi constituency. Kericho Police Commander James Mugera said police were yet to establish the motive of the killing which shocked neighbours. “The body of the young woman who had been cohabiting with her killer for one month has two cuts on the throat,” he said. And before Ainamoi residents could come to terms with the couple’s death, villagers of Kaminjeiywet in Bureti constituency were stunned by yet another murder. Two siblings Hillary Sang, 30, and Dominic Sang, 21, ganged up against their brother Denis Sang, 25, and hacked him to death with a fork jembe. Police report says the deceased who was drunk arrived home at around 11pm on Thursday and started causing disturbance. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. “The duo attacked the deceased with a fork jembe inflicting serious injuries on his neck and head. He died on the spot,” said Mugera adding that the suspects have since fled. In Belgut constituency, Mobego Chief Reuben Serem said the public lynched two suspected criminals. The two, Nixon Kipyegon, 25, and Felix Cheruiyot, 26, had allegedly broken into a house at Chepnyogaa village. Curiously Cheruiyot hailed from Kimugul village in Kipchimchim ward where criminals hacked to death Lawrence Sang, 38. ALSO READ:

Family loses five members in single crash On the fateful Thursday night, Kericho Township chief Duncan Bii, said the body of an electrician, Charles Otieno, 42 was found along a footpath next to Momoniat residential houses. The body had several stab wounds. On Wednesday evening, a 35-year-old man killed his father after they disagreed over sharing proceeds of a business in Kaplong/Chepnyogaa village in Belgut sub county. Belgut OCPD Philip Okello said the suspect hit the father Bethwel Kimutai Sang with a stick while demanding for money. “The deceased had leased out one of his shops at Chepyogaa trading center and the son was demanding the proceeds,” he said.