A woman yesterday told a Mombasa court how her estranged husband left her to be crushed by a train. The woman, who is a double-leg amputee, was testifying against Stephen Thomas alias Kerenje and Stephen Otieno Okalu who are on trial for rape and attempted murder. The 27-year-old told Senior Principal Magistrate Henry Nyakweba that she had been married to Kerenje for a month before they broke up. She described Otieno as childhood friend. She told the hushed court that she had fallen out with Kerenje after she declined to allow him take away her five-year-old son. "Trouble began when he claimed that my son was his. He wanted to take him away and I refused. So he swore to kill me and take away the child,” said the woman. Horrific night She told the court that Kerenje and Otieno had first assaulted her a week before the horrific night when they were drinking in a den near where she operated her food kiosk along the Mombasa-Nairobi highway. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content The wheel-chair bound woman narrated how on the night of February 3 last year the two men waylaid her as she walked home after attending the wake of a relative who had died. She had seen the men at the event and, fearful for her safety, asked the disk jockey to walk her home at around 4am. “The DJ left me at the railway line at Kibarani and returned to the wake. Someone then grabbed me from behind and covered my mouth and nose with a scarf. When I turned, I saw Otieno and Kirenje. I asked them why they were attacking me and Otieno stabbed me on the left thigh with a knife. He raped me and then they tied me to the rails,” she said. The woman told the court that as the men walked away, they mocked her about how she was about to die. As she struggled to free herself, she heard a train approaching. “I could only move my upper body but not the legs because of the stab wound." She said she screamed hoping the train driver would spot her but by the time he did, it was too late. The train crushed her thighs and came to a stop with her trapped underneath. “The train stopped and the captain came over with a flashlight. I was crying in pain and telling him I was not dead. So he rushed back into the train and honked to call for help.” The woman, who was three months pregnant at the time of the ordeal, told the court that she underwent more torture after the driver reversed the train over her broken legs so that she could be pulled out. Mangled limbs "By the time they removed me, my limbs were mangled to pieces. They had to carry me and rush me to Makadara but there was no help since the doctors were on strike. I was transferred to the Aga Khan Hospital where I was admitted for a month and had both my legs amputated," she said. She said that while in hospital, a police officer from Makupa visited her and took her statement. After being discharged, police summoned her to the station for an identification parade. "There were 10 men paraded at Makupa Police Station for me to identify. They were all of the same height and weight and I was able to identify Otieno," she said. She told the court that she later saw Kirenje pushing a cart on the streets and raised the alarm, leading to his arrest by members of the public.