 Teachers' unions have called on police to arrest criminals who are behind deadly attacks targeting tutors in the county. ALSO READ:

ECDs lack tutors, new study shows Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) Kericho branch and Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) Bomet branch have protested the recent killings of two teachers under unclear circumstances. Another teacher is fighting for her life in Reale Hospital in Eldoret. On July 20, Cheborgei High School teacher Willy Sang, 50, and his wife Eveline Sang, 42, were murdered in their bedroom. Shortly after, Wilson Kibe, a teacher at Bomet’s Changana Primary School, was killed under mysterious circumstances. A watchman at Changana Tea Estate stumbled on Mr Kibe’s decomposing body days after he went missing. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content In the latest incident, Faith Kinywa, 33, also of Changana Primary School, was attacked by machete-wielding thugs who raided her home in Kipchimchim, Ainamoi constituency Ms Kinywa's husband Lawrence Sang, who was also attacked, died from head injuries at the Kericho County Hospital. The couple’s two children were also seriously injured and are admitted at the Eldoret Teaching and Referral Hospital. ALSO READ:

State must secure non-locals in Northern Kenya Demanding answers Kuppet branch Executive Secretary Julius Mibei and his Knut Bomet counterpart Malel Langat are demanding answers from security agencies. In a letter to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Mr Mibei stated that the teachers wanted details concerning investigations into the Sangs' deaths in July. “Kindly update me on the status of investigations to enable me advise members accordingly prior to taking a decision on whether to call for peaceful demonstration on October 23,” he said. Mr Langat said teachers in Bomet were also demanding the arrest of Kibe's killers. “We want to see those involved in the murder arrested and charged. We cannot afford to lose such experienced teachers day in and out with no one being held responsible for their deaths." Following the killings, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet has, for the second time in three months, dispatched a team of homicide detectives to crack the criminal network in Kericho. ALSO READ:

Conservancy owner attacked in row Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter and Ainamoi MP Sylvanus Maritim, accompanied the homicide team to Kipchimchim. Security teams “The team will be in the county until they get to the bottom of the matter. We ask for co-operation from the local security teams as well as from the residents,” said Mr Keter. The CS said the security officers must ensure that arrests were made. “The criminals can run but they cannot hide. All the suspects' hideouts will be searched; we want a thorough clean-up in Kericho." Maritim condemned the killers, who were also reported to have raped their female victims, while Rev Joyce Tonui of African Gospel Church called on Kericho residents to seek God's intervention.