 At least 160 people have fallen sick after eating the carcass of a camel in Orus location, Tiaty sub-county. ALSO READ:

Family planning nightmare in Tiaty Those who fell sick included 40 children under the age of five. They are being treated at Kokwototo African Inland Church (AIC) Dispensary. Residents told The Standard that they slaughtered the camel, which died last Thursday. Those who ate the meat started complaining of severe headache, stomach ache, diarrhoea and continuous vomiting. “Tens of people in the village are sick,” said Joseph Merimuk, who was away grazing his livestock in a neighbouring village and returned to find his family in pain. “My family members are all sick. I might also have fallen victim if I was home, but I was away grazing my animals,” he said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Mr Merimuk said the situation worsened on Friday, when more villagers fell ill and could not travel to Tangulbei Health Centre, about 17km away. Local politician They contacted a local politician who mobilised health workers from the health centre to attend to them. ALSO READ:

Man steals gun from cop then shoots self “People, especially children, were in a lot of pain. We tried giving them herbal medicine at home but it did not relieve the pain. We eventually asked our leaders to come to our rescue,” said Merimuk. Tangulbei MCA Shadrack Mailuk said he bought drugs from local chemists and mobilised staff from the health centre. “I visited the area after receiving information about a dire health situation and swiftly mobilised health workers and medicine for their treatment,” said Mr Mailuk. The health workers set up a treatment camp at Kokwototo. The MCA appealed to the county administration to dispatch a team of veterinary experts to the area to determine which disease had led to the camel's death.  Pets that fed on the carcass were also reported to have fallen ill. ALSO READ:

Disease outbreak leaves trail of livestock deaths Public Health Chief Officer Winnie Bore said disease surveillance teams from the Livestock and Health departments had been sent to the area.