Kilifi County Governor Amason Kingi (middle) and Kilifi North MP Owen Baya among others inspect the Malindi collapsed building site in Kilifi County on Friday,026th October,2018. [Photo: Nehemiah Okwemba,Standard] The County Government of Kilifi has reiterated its commitment towards responding to disasters and emergencies in the county such as fire, floods, cyclones, sea disasters and assisting with both food and non-food items. ALSO READ:

More sought over lost advertising cash In his address to the County Assembly, Governor Amason Kingi said that they have embarked on major repairs of existing fire engines which had been grounded. ''We have also established a sensitization unit on disaster prevention and mitigation.  At the same time my Government has planned further to conduct assessments to establish the food security levels of our people as well as dissemination of safety information on monsoon winds, diseases and floods,'' Kingi said. Kingi said that in the financial year 2018/2019, his county administration has planned to continue undertaking the cash transfer programme to the elderly, orphaned and vulnerable children and persons living with severe disability. The Governor said that a total of 1,750 elderly, orphaned and vulnerable children will benefit from this programme in Kilifi County. And regarding the legislative agenda, Kingi said that Government shall establish a Disaster and Risk Management Policy and also forward to the County Assembly a proposal to amend the Kilifi County Disaster Management Act, 2016 to make it more responsive to the diverse and emerging disasters within the County. Avoid fake news! Subscribe to the Standard SMS service and receive factual, verified breaking news as it happens. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840 ''It is proposed to establish in each sub-County and ward, a disaster management committee to ensure effective response and management of the disasters,'' Kingi said. Kingi explained that as a County, Kilifi suffered severe floods and many people were displaced. ''Homes and farms were destroyed. My government working with other stakeholders made timely interventions to alleviate the suffering of the flood victims. I wish to report that my government is working very closely with the national government and non-government actors on a resettlement programme of the flood victims,'' said Kingi. ALSO READ:

MP Ayub Savula arrested He added that his government will re-introduce to this House, the Kilifi County Citizen Participation and Civic Education Bill. ''My Government will also bring for deliberation by this House the Kilifi County Village Administration Units Bill,'' he announced. The Kilifi County Village Administration Units Bill proposes to establish 182 village administration units in Kilifi County so as to provide for further decentralization of the functions and provision of services in accordance with Article 176 of the Constitution of Kenya, 2010. These units will ensure proper coordination and facilitation of citizen participation in the development of policies, plans and delivery of services. Other key recommendations which Kingi said will be brought before the County Assembly include tabling of  the Constitutional right of access to information. He said that his government will submit to the County Assembly the Kilifi County Access to Information Bill in the interest of being proactively transparent and accountable to its citizenry. Kingi said that also being considered for inclusion will be the Kilifi County Law Enforcement and Inspectorate Bill, 2018. ALSO READ:

The President said it all: Governments will do anything to get their way The bill seeks to establish the Kilifi County Inspectorate Unit and provide a mechanism for the establishment of a County Court in consultation with the Judiciary and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution to ensure compliance of all County laws.