Nyeri open air market on April 23, 2018. [Mose Sammy, Standard] At least 700 traders in Nyeri town on Friday moved into the newly refurbished Open Air market after a two-year wait. ALSO READ:

County introduces new revenue collection system The county government completed the project and Governor Mutahi Kahiga officially opened it. He promised to work to ensure there are similar projects to imrpve traders’ working environment. “We intend to complete the tarmacking of roads within the town, and also refurbish more markets. This week we also opened a new market in Ihururu for the traders, small and medium size businesses as they are key to economic growth,” Kahiga said. In the previous county administration, the open air market renovation was allocated Sh44 million. The Nyeri Open Air market at the Nyeri-Nairobi Bus terminus was first opened in 1970. In January 2016, the traders were moved to Whispers Park and were promised a six-month wait before moving into the refurbished stalls. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content For two years they braved harsh weather in trying to trade in cereals, vegetables and fruits. Kahiga praised the traders for being patient and settling in the new market peacefully. He said the traders can now work until late since there is electricity. ALSO READ:

Suspect allowed to travel to US for 7-day church meeting Kahiga promised to improve other markets like Kamakwa, Kiganjo, Nyaribo, Gatitu, Kiahungu, Endarasha, Kimahuri and Giakanja. The governor also launched the Mudavadi market after the county completed renovation. It now holds more than 60 traders. The Mudavadi market was constructed 61 years ago in 1957 and got a facelift, which included a new roof and floor. Others who attended the launch were Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, Rware MCA Paul Kanyari, Julia Wanjiku and David Kabatha. Ngunjiri and Kanyari praised the governor for transforming Nyeri County in less than a year since he took office. “My role in this project was to ensure the transition from Whispers Park to the market happened without any conflict. I want to congratulate the transition committees for ensuring everyone went back to where they were,” Ngunjiri said. He asked the county to complete the Kamakwa, Kiganjo and Gatitu markets. ALSO READ:

Directs flights from Nyeri to Nairobi begin- Photos 