Every time the National Youth Service has been in the news lately, it has been for all the wrong reasons. Yet the noble idea behind the formation of NYS was to train and equip the youth with technical skills and instil in them a sense of patriotism, besides engaging in community projects to keep them busy and productive. It has never been the same for NYS since the revelation of a scam in which Sh791 million was lost between 2014 and 2015 through shady procurement deals. At the time, however, the bad blood between the Opposition and the Government watered down the seriousness of the revelation, making it look like witch-hunt. ALSO READ:

Our problems do not warrant a referendum There were spirited attempts to cover up the theft, and they would have succeeded were it not for a relentless Opposition determined to bring it to light. Early this year, there were more revelations on the possible loss of Sh1 billion at NYS. But just like what has been christened NYS 1, not much light has been shed on NYS 2. Some high-ranking officers were charged with theft and suspended from duty. The Criminal Investigations Department, despite probing the heists, does not seem to have the right answers to numerous questions. This leaves the public with a lot of bile because too often, suspects have been let off the hook, thanks to shoddy investigations, and the lost money was never recovered. The reported thefts at NYS show the vulnerability of the supposedly foolproof Integrated Financial Management Information System. They depict NYS as a conduit for stealing public money camouflaged as development projects. This is an indictment on the Government for allowing this to happen when it can tighten the loose ends through which money is syphoned. Thus, the proposed NYS Bill 2018 that seeks to strengthen the service's structures to make it accountable comes at the right time. Of the many proposed measures, the first should be to give the institution autonomy to operate independently of the meddlesome Executive. The NYS should not be a dumping ground for political rejects or cronies who are taken on board as managers. The top positions, as with other Government institutions, should be filled on merit after a competitive process. Only that way can we expect to see positive change at NYS. Your opinion is valuable. Take this quick survey to help us improve the website and content