 A pyrethrum firm has been ordered to pay an architect Sh11 million. The High Court in Nakuru yesterday directed Pyrethrum Processing Company of Kenya (PPCK) acting manager Paul Lolwerikoi to inform a top Government official that auctioneers would move in if the debt was not paid. “Make the principal secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture understand that if he does not make payment of Sh11,749,112 as promised, we will allow auctioneers to attach movable property of PPCK,” said Justice Joel Ngugi. The architect, Julius Matasyo, had been commissioned to carry out work on a PPCK go-down in July 2001, which he completed in September the same year. The directive by the court came as auctioneers were seeking orders to gain forceful entry into PPCK's compound and take possession of some of its property. Break-in orders Stay informed while on the go by subscribing to the Standard Group SMS service. Text the word 'NEWS' to 22840. “That this honourable court be pleased to issue break-in orders to M/s Legacy Auctioneers to enable them take possession of the proclaimed properties locked away in the debtors's yard,” read the application. The auctioneers further wanted the court to direct the Officer Commanding Nakuru Central Police Station to provide security in the course of carrying out the break-in. Eight vehicles belonging to the company have been impounded. Mr Matasyo's lawyer, Gor Kisila, said the vehicles had been auctioned to recover money owed to his client. “The eight vehicles have been sold and we want to attach more. The vehicles can each fetch around Sh200,000,” said Mr Kisila. The lawyer said Matasyo had been willing to listen to PPCK officials but "he could no longer accommodate them". Mr Lolwerikoi told the court Sh3 million would be paid on October 21. “I have been struggling the whole week to get the money and we are just waiting for the money to be wired from the ministry. Immediately we get it, we will start settling the debt,” he said. Lolwerikoi told Justice Ngugi he was worried because the company could not operate due to lack of motor vehicles. Cars impounded “I am stressed about our operations because they have held our vehicles. Around eight have been impounded. We cannot move around and collect flowers." Kisila said the execution of orders to impound and sell more company vehicles could be postponed to see if the pyrethrum firm would pay up. “If the Sh3 million is not paid by October 21, we will continue with the execution,” he told the court. The case will be mentioned on October 25.