Security agencies have issued a warrant of arrest for anyone found to have arrow or spear injuries in Olposimoru. Speaking at Olposimoru centre during a peace meeting between members of Kipsigis and Maasai communities on Tuesday, County Commissioner George Natembeya said spear or arrow injuries were indications that the bearers were in the battle field. ALSO READ:

We will not be distracted by referendum talks-Ruto Mr Natembeya said the Government would deploy criminal investigators to all key hospitals around the volatile area to arrest those being treated for the injuries. “We shall not sympathise with the injured. Such people would record statements and once they are out of hospitals, they will face charges of attempting or participating in a felony,” he warned. Mr Natembeya said detectives would monitor hospitals such as Olenguruone, Narok County Hospital, Longisa and other health facilities in the county. The county commissioner also turned down pleas from locals who wanted the dawn-to-dusk curfew imposed in the area a fortnight ago lifted. Instead, the officer extended the curfew by one hour from 6am to 7pm. “I have heard that you want the curfew lifted. The curfew was introduced because of lawlessness and it will only be lifted after the Government is satisfied that there is peace in the affected areas,” he said. Know if news is factual and true. Text 'NEWS' to 22840 and always receive verified news updates. Local leaders, including MCA Kuyo Kikaet, requested for more administrative units, saying insecurity was a catalyst to the violence. “We need about three more locations at Kamrar, Nkokolani, Oleng’ape and Olposimoru (A) and (B). The Government should take services closer to the people for peace to prevail,” said Mr Kikaet. ALSO READ:

US needs answers on the missing Saudi Journalist The county commissioner acknowledged that there were few administrative units, saying the matter would be addressed as soon as they received money from the Government. Natembeya also banned locals from carrying weapons such as bows and arrows, saying anyone found with the weapons would be arrested and charged.